docusaurus/docs/cms/api/rest/filters.md, before:

---
title: Filters
description: Use Strapi's REST API to filter the results of your requests.
sidebarDepth: 3
sidebar_label:  Filters
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
tags:
- API
- complex filtering
- Content API
- deep filtering
- filters
- find
- interactive query builder
- locale
- REST API
- qs library
---

import QsIntroFull from '/docs/snippets/qs-intro-full.md'
import QsForQueryBody from '/docs/snippets/qs-for-query-body.md'
import QsForQueryTitle from '/docs/snippets/qs-for-query-title.md'
import DeepFilteringBlogLink from '/docs/snippets/deep-filtering-blog.md'

# REST API: Filters

The [REST API](/cms/api/rest) offers the ability to filter results found with its ["Get entries"](/cms/api/rest#get-all) method.<br/>
Using optional Strapi features can provide some more filters:

- If the [Internationalization (i18n) plugin](/cms/features/internationalization) is enabled on a content-type, it's possible to filter by locale.
- If the [Draft & Publish](/cms/features/draft-and-publish) is enabled, it's possible to filter based on a `published` (default) or `draft` status.

:::tip
<QsIntroFull />
:::

Queries can accept a `filters` parameter with the following syntax:

`GET /api/:pluralApiId?filters[field][operator]=value`

The following operators are available:

| Operator        | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `$eq`           | Equal                                    |
| `$eqi`          | Equal (case-insensitive)                 |
| `$ne`           | Not equal                                |
| `$nei`          | Not equal (case-insensitive)             |
| `$lt`           | Less than                                |
| `$lte`          | Less than or equal to                    |
| `$gt`           | Greater than                             |
| `$gte`          | Greater than or equal to                 |
| `$in`           | Included in an array                     |
| `$notIn`        | Not included in an array                 |
| `$contains`     | Contains                                 |
| `$notContains`  | Does not contain                         |
| `$containsi`    | Contains (case-insensitive)              |
| `$notContainsi` | Does not contain (case-insensitive)      |
| `$null`         | Is null                                  |
| `$notNull`      | Is not null                              |
| `$between`      | Is between                               |
| `$startsWith`   | Starts with                              |
| `$startsWithi`  | Starts with (case-insensitive)           |
| `$endsWith`     | Ends with                                |
| `$endsWithi`    | Ends with (case-insensitive)             |
| `$or`           | Joins the filters in an "or" expression  |
| `$and`          | Joins the filters in an "and" expression |
| `$not`          | Joins the filters in an "not" expression |

:::caution
By default, the filters can only be used from `find` endpoints generated by the Content-type Builder and the CLI.
:::

## Example: Find users having 'John' as a first name

You can use the `$eq` filter operator to find an exact match.

<br />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find users having 'John' as first name">

`GET /api/users?filters[username][$eq]=John`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    username: {
      $eq: 'John',
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/users?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "znrlzntu9ei5onjvwfaalu2v",
      "username": "John",
      "email": "john@test.com",
      "provider": "local",
      "confirmed": true,
      "blocked": false,
      "createdAt": "2021-12-03T20:08:17.740Z",
      "updatedAt": "2021-12-03T20:08:17.740Z"
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
  "pagination": {
    "page": 1,
    "pageSize": 25,
    "pageCount": 1,
    "total": 1
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Example: Find multiple restaurants with ids 3, 6,8

You can use the `$in` filter operator with an array of values to find multiple exact values.

<br />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find multiple restaurants with ids 3, 6, 8">

`GET /api/restaurants?filters[id][$in][0]=6&filters[id][$in][1]=8`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    id: {
      $in: [3, 6, 8],
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/restaurants?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 6,
      "documentId": "ethwxjxtvuxl89jq720e38uk",
      "name": "test6",
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 8,
      "documentId": "cf07g1dbusqr8mzmlbqvlegx",
      "name": "test8",
      // ...
    },
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Complex filtering

Complex filtering is combining multiple filters using advanced methods such as combining `$and` & `$or`. This allows for more flexibility to request exactly the data needed.

<br />
<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find books with 2 possible dates and a specific author">

`GET /api/books?filters[$or][0][date][$eq]=2020-01-01&filters[$or][1][date][$eq]=2020-01-02&filters[author][name][$eq]=Kai%20doe`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    $or: [
      {
        date: {
          $eq: '2020-01-01',
        },
      },
      {
        date: {
          $eq: '2020-01-02',
        },
      },
    ],
    author: {
      name: {
        $eq: 'Kai doe',
      },
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/books?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "rxngxzclq0zdaqtvz67hj38d",
      "name": "test1",
      "date": "2020-01-01",
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "documentId": "kjkhff4e269a50b4vi16stst",
      "name": "test2",
      "date": "2020-01-02",
      // ...
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Deep filtering

Deep filtering is filtering on a relation's fields.

:::note
- Relations, media fields, components, and dynamic zones are not populated by default. Use the `populate` parameter to populate these data structures (see [`populate` documentation](/cms/api/rest/populate-select#population))
<!-- - It is not possible to filter on dynamic zones or media fields. -->
- Deep filtering isn't available for some polymorphic relations such as media fields, but it works on dynamic zones.
:::

:::caution
Querying your API with deep filters may cause performance issues.  If one of your deep filtering queries is too slow, we recommend building a custom route with an optimized version of the query.
:::

<DeepFilteringBlogLink />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find restaurants owned by a chef who belongs to a 5-star restaurant">

`GET /api/restaurants?filters[chef][restaurants][stars][$eq]=5`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    chef: {
      restaurants: {
        stars: {
          $eq: 5,
        },
      },
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/restaurants?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "cvsz61qg33rtyv1qljb1nrtg",
      "name": "GORDON RAMSAY STEAK",
      "stars": 5
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "documentId": "uh17h7ibw0g8thit6ivi71d8",
      "name": "GORDON RAMSAY BURGER",
      "stars": 5
      // ...
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

Commit message:

Clarify what's possible with (deep) filtering

docusaurus/docs/cms/api/rest/filters.md, after:

---
title: Filters
description: Use Strapi's REST API to filter the results of your requests.
sidebarDepth: 3
sidebar_label:  Filters
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
tags:
- API
- complex filtering
- Content API
- deep filtering
- filters
- find
- interactive query builder
- locale
- REST API
- qs library
---

import QsIntroFull from '/docs/snippets/qs-intro-full.md'
import QsForQueryBody from '/docs/snippets/qs-for-query-body.md'
import QsForQueryTitle from '/docs/snippets/qs-for-query-title.md'
import DeepFilteringBlogLink from '/docs/snippets/deep-filtering-blog.md'

# REST API: Filters

The [REST API](/cms/api/rest) offers the ability to filter results found with its ["Get entries"](/cms/api/rest#get-all) method.<br/>
Using optional Strapi features can provide some more filters:

- If the [Internationalization (i18n) plugin](/cms/features/internationalization) is enabled on a content-type, it's possible to filter by locale.
- If the [Draft & Publish](/cms/features/draft-and-publish) is enabled, it's possible to filter based on a `published` (default) or `draft` status.

:::tip
<QsIntroFull />
:::

Queries can accept a `filters` parameter with the following syntax:

`GET /api/:pluralApiId?filters[field][operator]=value`

The following operators are available:

| Operator        | Description                              |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `$eq`           | Equal                                    |
| `$eqi`          | Equal (case-insensitive)                 |
| `$ne`           | Not equal                                |
| `$nei`          | Not equal (case-insensitive)             |
| `$lt`           | Less than                                |
| `$lte`          | Less than or equal to                    |
| `$gt`           | Greater than                             |
| `$gte`          | Greater than or equal to                 |
| `$in`           | Included in an array                     |
| `$notIn`        | Not included in an array                 |
| `$contains`     | Contains                                 |
| `$notContains`  | Does not contain                         |
| `$containsi`    | Contains (case-insensitive)              |
| `$notContainsi` | Does not contain (case-insensitive)      |
| `$null`         | Is null                                  |
| `$notNull`      | Is not null                              |
| `$between`      | Is between                               |
| `$startsWith`   | Starts with                              |
| `$startsWithi`  | Starts with (case-insensitive)           |
| `$endsWith`     | Ends with                                |
| `$endsWithi`    | Ends with (case-insensitive)             |
| `$or`           | Joins the filters in an "or" expression  |
| `$and`          | Joins the filters in an "and" expression |
| `$not`          | Joins the filters in an "not" expression |

:::caution
By default, the filters can only be used from `find` endpoints generated by the Content-type Builder and the CLI.
:::

## Example: Find users having 'John' as a first name

You can use the `$eq` filter operator to find an exact match.

<br />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find users having 'John' as first name">

`GET /api/users?filters[username][$eq]=John`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    username: {
      $eq: 'John',
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/users?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "znrlzntu9ei5onjvwfaalu2v",
      "username": "John",
      "email": "john@test.com",
      "provider": "local",
      "confirmed": true,
      "blocked": false,
      "createdAt": "2021-12-03T20:08:17.740Z",
      "updatedAt": "2021-12-03T20:08:17.740Z"
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
  "pagination": {
    "page": 1,
    "pageSize": 25,
    "pageCount": 1,
    "total": 1
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Example: Find multiple restaurants with ids 3, 6,8

You can use the `$in` filter operator with an array of values to find multiple exact values.

<br />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find multiple restaurants with ids 3, 6, 8">

`GET /api/restaurants?filters[id][$in][0]=6&filters[id][$in][1]=8`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    id: {
      $in: [3, 6, 8],
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/restaurants?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 6,
      "documentId": "ethwxjxtvuxl89jq720e38uk",
      "name": "test6",
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 8,
      "documentId": "cf07g1dbusqr8mzmlbqvlegx",
      "name": "test8",
      // ...
    },
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Complex filtering

Complex filtering is combining multiple filters using advanced methods such as combining `$and` & `$or`. This allows for more flexibility to request exactly the data needed.

<br />
<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find books with 2 possible dates and a specific author">

`GET /api/books?filters[$or][0][date][$eq]=2020-01-01&filters[$or][1][date][$eq]=2020-01-02&filters[author][name][$eq]=Kai%20doe`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    $or: [
      {
        date: {
          $eq: '2020-01-01',
        },
      },
      {
        date: {
          $eq: '2020-01-02',
        },
      },
    ],
    author: {
      name: {
        $eq: 'Kai doe',
      },
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/books?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "rxngxzclq0zdaqtvz67hj38d",
      "name": "test1",
      "date": "2020-01-01",
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "documentId": "kjkhff4e269a50b4vi16stst",
      "name": "test2",
      "date": "2020-01-02",
      // ...
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

## Deep filtering

Deep filtering is filtering on a relation's fields.

:::note
- Relations, media fields, components, and dynamic zones are not populated by default. Use the `populate` parameter to populate these data structures (see [`populate` documentation](/cms/api/rest/populate-select#population))
- You can filter what you populate, you can also filter nested relations, but you can't use filters for polymorphic data structures (such as media fields and dynamic zones).
:::

:::caution
Querying your API with deep filters may cause performance issues.  If one of your deep filtering queries is too slow, we recommend building a custom route with an optimized version of the query.
:::

<DeepFilteringBlogLink />

<ApiCall>
<Request title="Find restaurants owned by a chef who belongs to a 5-star restaurant">

`GET /api/restaurants?filters[chef][restaurants][stars][$eq]=5`

</Request>

<details>
<summary>JavaScript query (built with the qs library):</summary>

<QsForQueryBody />

```js
const qs = require('qs');
const query = qs.stringify({
  filters: {
    chef: {
      restaurants: {
        stars: {
          $eq: 5,
        },
      },
    },
  },
}, {
  encodeValuesOnly: true, // prettify URL
});

await request(`/api/restaurants?${query}`);
```

</details>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "id": 1,
      "documentId": "cvsz61qg33rtyv1qljb1nrtg",
      "name": "GORDON RAMSAY STEAK",
      "stars": 5
      // ...
    },
    {
      "id": 2,
      "documentId": "uh17h7ibw0g8thit6ivi71d8",
      "name": "GORDON RAMSAY BURGER",
      "stars": 5
      // ...
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>
