docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/integrations/gridsome.md, before:

---
title: Gridsome
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
description: Integrate Strapi with Gridsome.
tags:
- collection type
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/_not-updated-to-v5.md'

# Getting Started with Gridsome

<NotV5 />

This integration guide follows the [Quick Start Guide](/dev-docs/quick-start) and assumes you have you have fully completed the "Hands-on" path. You should be able to consume the API by browsing the URL [http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants](http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants).

If you haven't gone through the Quick Start Guide, the way you request a Strapi API with [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/) remains the same except that you do not fetch the same content.

## Create a Gridsome app

Create a basic Gridsome application using the [Gridsome CLI](https://gridsome.org/docs/gridsome-cli/).

```bash
gridsome create gridsome-app
```

## Configure Gridsome

Gridsome is a [Static Site Generator](https://www.staticgen.com/) and will fetch your content from Strapi at build time. You need to configure Gridsome to communicate with your Strapi application.

```bash
yarn add @gridsome/source-strapi
```

- Add the `@gridsome/source-strapi` to the plugins section in the `gridsome.config.js` file:

```js
module.exports = {
  siteName: 'Gridsome',
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-strapi',
      options: {
        apiURL: `http://localhost:1337`,
        queryLimit: 1000, // Defaults to 100
        contentTypes: [`restaurant`, `category`],
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

## GET Request your collection type

Execute a `GET` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to fetch all your restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `find` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.

<ApiCall noSideBySide>
<Request title="Example GET request">

```graphql
query {
  allStrapiRestaurant {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        name
        description
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Request>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": {
    "allStrapiRestaurant": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "node": {
            "id": 1,
            "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
            "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers.",
            "categories": [1]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

### Example

`./src/pages/Index.vue`

```jsx
<template>
<Layout>
  <ul>
    <li v-for="restaurant in $page.allStrapiRestaurant.edges" :key="restaurant.node.id">
      {{ restaurant.node.name }}
      <ul>
        <li v-for="category in restaurant.node.categories">
          <g-link :to="'categories/' + category.id">{{ category.name }}</g-link>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query {
      allStrapiRestaurant {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            name
            categories {
              id
              name
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
</page-query>
```

Execute a `GET` request on the `category` collection type in order to fetch a specific category with all the associated restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `findOne` permission for the `category` collection type.

<ApiCall noSideBySide>
<Request title="Example GET request">

```graphql
query {
  strapiCategory(id: 1) {
    id
    name
    restaurants {
      name
      description
    }
  }
}
```

</Request>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": {
    "strapiCategory": {
      "id": "1",
      "name": "French Food",
      "restaurants": [
        {
          "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
          "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers."
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

### Example

`./src/pages/Index.vue`

```jsx
<template>
<Layout>
  <h1>{{ $page.strapiCategory.name }}</h1>
  <ul>
    <li v-for="restaurant in $page.strapiCategory.restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">{{ restaurant.name }}</li>
  </ul>
</Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query  {
    strapiCategory(id: 1) {
      id
      name
      restaurants {
        name
        description
      }
    }
  }
</page-query>
```

We can generate pages for each category.

- Tell Gridsome to generate a page for each category by updating the `gridsome-server.js` file with the following:

```js
module.exports = function(api) {
  api.createPages(async ({ graphql, createPage }) => {
    const { data } = await graphql(`
      {
        allStrapiCategory {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              name
            }
          }
        }
      }
    `);

    const categories = data.allStrapiCategory.edges;

    categories.forEach(category => {
      createPage({
        path: `/categories/${category.node.id}`,
        component: './src/templates/Category.vue',
        context: {
          id: category.node.id,
        },
      });
    });
  });
};
```

- Create a `./src/templates/Category.vue` file that will display the content of each one of your category:

```js
<template>
  <Layout>
    <div>
      <h1>{{ $page.category.name }}</h1>
      <ul>
        <li v-for="restaurant in $page.category.restaurants">{{ restaurant.name }}</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query Category($id: ID!) {
      category: strapiCategory(id: $id) {
        name
        restaurants {
          id
          name
        }
      }
    }
</page-query>
```

You can find your restaurant categories by browsing `http://localhost:8080/categories/<id-of-category>`.

Commit message:

Deprecate integration guides (#2173)
* Update database config. with install. instructions

* Remove SQLite guide

* Update deployments page

* Remove AWS guide

* Remove Azure guide

* Remove Caddy proxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove DigitalOcean (DO) App Platform guide

* Remove DigitalOcean (DO) droplets guide

* Remove Heroku guide

* Remove hosting guides sub-file

* Remove snippet for community guides

* Update sidebar

* Fix "no localizations field" BC

getAvailableLocales() is not implemented

* Remove HAProxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove NGinx proxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove optional software guides pages

* Remove PM2 guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove unneeded snippets

* Update links

* Fix broken links

* Fix incorrect number of tabs in Cloud account settings

* Fix more broken links

* Deprecate integration guides

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/integrations/gridsome.md, after:

---
title: Gridsome
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
description: Integrate Strapi with Gridsome.
---

import RemovingIntegrations from '/docs/snippets/integration-guides-soon-removed.md'

# Getting Started with Gridsome

<RemovingIntegrations />

This integration guide follows the [Quick Start Guide](https://docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/quick-start). You should be able to consume the API by browsing the URL [http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants](http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants).

If you haven't gone through the Quick Start Guide, the way you request a Strapi API with [Gridsome](https://gridsome.org/) remains the same except that you do not fetch the same content.

## Create a Gridsome app

Create a basic Gridsome application using the [Gridsome CLI](https://gridsome.org/docs/gridsome-cli/).

```bash
gridsome create gridsome-app
```

## Configure Gridsome

Gridsome is a [Static Site Generator](https://www.staticgen.com/) and will fetch your content from Strapi at build time. You need to configure Gridsome to communicate with your Strapi application.

```bash
yarn add @gridsome/source-strapi
```

- Add the `@gridsome/source-strapi` to the plugins section in the `gridsome.config.js` file:

```js
module.exports = {
  siteName: 'Gridsome',
  plugins: [
    {
      use: '@gridsome/source-strapi',
      options: {
        apiURL: `http://localhost:1337`,
        queryLimit: 1000, // Defaults to 100
        contentTypes: [`restaurant`, `category`],
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

## GET Request your collection type

Execute a `GET` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to fetch all your restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `find` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.

<ApiCall noSideBySide>
<Request title="Example GET request">

```graphql
query {
  allStrapiRestaurant {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        name
        description
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Request>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": {
    "allStrapiRestaurant": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "node": {
            "id": 1,
            "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
            "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers.",
            "categories": [1]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

### Example

`./src/pages/Index.vue`

```jsx
<template>
<Layout>
  <ul>
    <li v-for="restaurant in $page.allStrapiRestaurant.edges" :key="restaurant.node.id">
      {{ restaurant.node.name }}
      <ul>
        <li v-for="category in restaurant.node.categories">
          <g-link :to="'categories/' + category.id">{{ category.name }}</g-link>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query {
      allStrapiRestaurant {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            name
            categories {
              id
              name
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
</page-query>
```

Execute a `GET` request on the `category` collection type in order to fetch a specific category with all the associated restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `findOne` permission for the `category` collection type.

<ApiCall noSideBySide>
<Request title="Example GET request">

```graphql
query {
  strapiCategory(id: 1) {
    id
    name
    restaurants {
      name
      description
    }
  }
}
```

</Request>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "data": {
    "strapiCategory": {
      "id": "1",
      "name": "French Food",
      "restaurants": [
        {
          "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
          "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers."
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

</Response>
</ApiCall>

### Example

`./src/pages/Index.vue`

```jsx
<template>
<Layout>
  <h1>{{ $page.strapiCategory.name }}</h1>
  <ul>
    <li v-for="restaurant in $page.strapiCategory.restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">{{ restaurant.name }}</li>
  </ul>
</Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query  {
    strapiCategory(id: 1) {
      id
      name
      restaurants {
        name
        description
      }
    }
  }
</page-query>
```

We can generate pages for each category.

- Tell Gridsome to generate a page for each category by updating the `gridsome-server.js` file with the following:

```js
module.exports = function(api) {
  api.createPages(async ({ graphql, createPage }) => {
    const { data } = await graphql(`
      {
        allStrapiCategory {
          edges {
            node {
              id
              name
            }
          }
        }
      }
    `);

    const categories = data.allStrapiCategory.edges;

    categories.forEach(category => {
      createPage({
        path: `/categories/${category.node.id}`,
        component: './src/templates/Category.vue',
        context: {
          id: category.node.id,
        },
      });
    });
  });
};
```

- Create a `./src/templates/Category.vue` file that will display the content of each one of your category:

```js
<template>
  <Layout>
    <div>
      <h1>{{ $page.category.name }}</h1>
      <ul>
        <li v-for="restaurant in $page.category.restaurants">{{ restaurant.name }}</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </Layout>
</template>

<page-query>
  query Category($id: ID!) {
      category: strapiCategory(id: $id) {
        name
        restaurants {
          id
          name
        }
      }
    }
</page-query>
```

You can find your restaurant categories by browsing `http://localhost:8080/categories/<id-of-category>`.
