docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/integrations/vue-js.md, before:

---
title: Vue.js
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
description: Integrate Strapi with Vue.js.
tags:
- collection type
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/_not-updated-to-v5.md'

# Getting Started with Vue.js

<NotV5 />

This integration guide follows the [Quick Start Guide](/dev-docs/quick-start) and assumes you have you have fully completed the "Hands-on" path. You should be able to consume the API by browsing the URL [http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants](http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants).

If you haven't gone through the Quick Start Guide, the way you request a Strapi API with [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) remains the same except that you do not fetch the same content.

## Create a Vue.js app

Create a basic Vue.js application using [Vue CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org).

```bash
vue create vue-app
```

## Use an HTTP client

Many HTTP clients are available but in this documentation we'll use [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) and [Fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

```bash
yarn add axios
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

No installation needed

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## GET Request your collection type

Execute a `GET` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to fetch all your restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `find` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example GET request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants').then(response => {
  console.log(response);
});
```

</Request>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

<Request title="Example GET request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
  method: 'GET',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
    "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers.",
    "created_by": {
      "id": 1,
      "firstname": "Paul",
      "lastname": "Bocuse",
      "username": null
    },
    "updated_by": {
      "id": 1,
      "firstname": "Paul",
      "lastname": "Bocuse",
      "username": null
    },
    "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:37:16.964Z",
    "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:37:16.975Z",
    "categories": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "French Food",
        "created_by": 1,
        "updated_by": 1,
        "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.164Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.172Z"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

</Response>

### Example

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <div v-if="error">
      {{ error }}
    </div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="restaurant in restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">
        {{ restaurant.attributes.name }}
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import axios from 'axios'

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data () {
    return {
      restaurants: [],
      error: null
    }
  },
  async mounted () {
    try {
      const response = await axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants')
      this.restaurants = response.data.data
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error;
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <div v-if="error">
      {{ error }}
    </div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="restaurant in restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">
        {{ restaurant.name }}
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script>

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data () {
    return {
      restaurants: [],
      error: null,
      headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'}
    }
  },
  methods: {
    parseJSON: function (resp) {
      return (resp.json ? resp.json() : resp);
    },
    checkStatus: function (resp) {
      if (resp.status >= 200 && resp.status < 300) {
        return resp;
      }
      return this.parseJSON(resp).then((resp) => {
        throw resp;
      });
    }
  },
  async mounted () {
    try {
      const response = await fetch("http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants", {
        method: 'GET',
        headers: this.headers,
      }).then(this.checkStatus)
        .then(this.parseJSON);
      this.restaurants = response
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## POST Request your collection type

Execute a `POST` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to create a restaurant.

Be sure that you activated the `create` permission for the `restaurant` collection type and the `find` permission for the `category` Collection type.

In this example a `japanese` category has been created which has the id: 3.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example POST request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios
  .post('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
    name: 'Dolemon Sushi',
    description: 'Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious',
    categories: [3],
  })
  .then(response => {
    console.log(response);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

<Request title="Example POST request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    name: 'Dolemon Sushi',
    description: 'Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious',
    categories: [3],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Dolemon Sushi",
  "description": "Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious",
  "created_by": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "created_at": "2020-08-04T09:57:11.669Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-08-04T09:57:11.669Z",
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": 3,
      "name": "Japanese",
      "created_by": 1,
      "updated_by": 1,
      "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.164Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.172Z"
    }
  ]
}
```
</Response>

### Example

<Tabs> 

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
<div id="app">
  <div v-if="error">
    {{ error }}
  </div>

  <form id="form" v-on:submit="handleSubmit" v-else>
    <label for="name">Name</label>
    <input id="name" v-model="modifiedData.name" type="text" name="name">

    <label for="description">Description</label>
    <input id="description" v-model="modifiedData.description" type="text" name="description">

    <div>
      <br />
      Select categories
      <div v-for="category in allCategories" :key="category.id">
        <label>{{ category.name }}</label>
        <input
          type="checkbox"
          :value="category.id"
          v-model="modifiedData.categories"
          name="categories"
          :id="category.id"
        />
      </div>
    </div>

    <input type="submit" value="Submit">
  </form>

</div>
</template>

<script>
import axios from 'axios'

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data() {
    return {
      allCategories: [],
      modifiedData: {
        name: '',
        description: '',
        categories: [],
      },
      error: null
    }
  },
  async mounted() {
    try {
      const response = await axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/categories')
      this.allCategories = response.data;
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error;
    }
  },
  methods: {
    handleSubmit: async function(e) {
      e.preventDefault();

      try {
        const response = await axios.post('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', this.modifiedData)
        console.log(response);
      } catch(error) {
        this.error = error;
      }
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
<div id="app">
  <div v-if="error">
    {{ error }}
  </div>

  <form id="form" v-on:submit="handleSubmit" v-else>
    <h3>Restaurants</h3>
    <br>

    <label for="name">Name</label>
    <input id="name" v-model="modifiedData.name" type="text" name="name">

    <label for="description">Description</label>
    <input id="description" v-model="modifiedData.description" type="text" name="description">
    <div>
      <br />
      <b>Select categories</b>
      <br>
      <div v-for="category in allCategories" :key="category.id">
        <label>{{ category.name }}</label>
        <input
          type="checkbox"
          :value="category.id"
          v-model="modifiedData.categories"
          name="categories"
          :id="category.id"
        />
      </div>
    </div>
    <br>

    <input type="submit" value="Submit">
  </form>

</div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'App',
  data() {
    return {
      allCategories: [],
      modifiedData: {
        name: '',
        description: '',
        categories: [],
      },
      error: null,
      headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'}
    }
  },
  async mounted() {
    try {
      const allCategories = await fetch("http://localhost:1337/api/categories", {
          method: 'GET',
          headers: this.headers,
        }).then(this.checkStatus)
          .then(this.parseJSON);
          this.allCategories = allCategories
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error
    }
  },
  methods: {
    parseJSON: function (resp) {
      return (resp.json ? resp.json() : resp);
    },
    checkStatus: function (resp) {
      if (resp.status >= 200 && resp.status < 300) {
        return resp;
      }
      return this.parseJSON(resp).then((resp) => {
        throw resp;
      });
    },
    handleSubmit: async function(e) {
      e.preventDefault();

      try {
        const response = await fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
            method: 'POST',
            headers: this.headers,
            body: JSON.stringify(this.modifiedData)
          }).then(this.checkStatus)
            .then(this.parseJSON);
            console.log(response);
      } catch (error) {
        this.error = error
      }
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## PUT Request your collection type

Execute a `PUT` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to update the category of a restaurant.

Be sure that you activated the `put` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.



We consider that the id of your restaurant is `2`.
and the id of your category is `2`.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example PUT request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios
  .put('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants/2', {
    categories: [2],
  })
  .then(response => {
    console.log(response);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">
<Request title="Example PUT request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants/2', {
  method: 'PUT',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    categories: [2],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => {
    console.log(data);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Dolemon Sushi",
  "description": "Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious",
  "created_by": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "created_at": "2020-08-04T10:21:30.219Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-08-04T10:21:30.219Z",
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Brunch",
      "created_by": 1,
      "updated_by": 1,
      "created_at": "2020-08-04T10:24:26.901Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-08-04T10:24:26.911Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

</Response>

Commit message:

Deprecate integration guides (#2173)
* Update database config. with install. instructions

* Remove SQLite guide

* Update deployments page

* Remove AWS guide

* Remove Azure guide

* Remove Caddy proxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove DigitalOcean (DO) App Platform guide

* Remove DigitalOcean (DO) droplets guide

* Remove Heroku guide

* Remove hosting guides sub-file

* Remove snippet for community guides

* Update sidebar

* Fix "no localizations field" BC

getAvailableLocales() is not implemented

* Remove HAProxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove NGinx proxy guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove optional software guides pages

* Remove PM2 guide

(transferred to forum)

* Remove unneeded snippets

* Update links

* Fix broken links

* Fix incorrect number of tabs in Cloud account settings

* Fix more broken links

* Deprecate integration guides

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/integrations/vue-js.md, after:

---
title: Vue.js
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
description: Integrate Strapi with Vue.js.
---

import RemovingIntegrations from '/docs/snippets/integration-guides-soon-removed.md'

# Getting Started with Vue.js

<RemovingIntegrations />

This integration guide follows the [Quick Start Guide](https://docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/quick-start). You should be able to consume the API by browsing the URL [http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants](http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants).

If you haven't gone through the Quick Start Guide, the way you request a Strapi API with [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) remains the same except that you do not fetch the same content.

## Create a Vue.js app

Create a basic Vue.js application using [Vue CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org).

```bash
vue create vue-app
```

## Use an HTTP client

Many HTTP clients are available but in this documentation we'll use [Axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) and [Fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

```bash
yarn add axios
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

No installation needed

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## GET Request your collection type

Execute a `GET` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to fetch all your restaurants.

Be sure that you activated the `find` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example GET request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants').then(response => {
  console.log(response);
});
```

</Request>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

<Request title="Example GET request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
  method: 'GET',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Biscotte Restaurant",
    "description": "Welcome to Biscotte restaurant! Restaurant Biscotte offers a cuisine based on fresh, quality products, often local, organic when possible, and always produced by passionate producers.",
    "created_by": {
      "id": 1,
      "firstname": "Paul",
      "lastname": "Bocuse",
      "username": null
    },
    "updated_by": {
      "id": 1,
      "firstname": "Paul",
      "lastname": "Bocuse",
      "username": null
    },
    "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:37:16.964Z",
    "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:37:16.975Z",
    "categories": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "French Food",
        "created_by": 1,
        "updated_by": 1,
        "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.164Z",
        "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.172Z"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

</Response>

### Example

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <div v-if="error">
      {{ error }}
    </div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="restaurant in restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">
        {{ restaurant.attributes.name }}
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
import axios from 'axios'

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data () {
    return {
      restaurants: [],
      error: null
    }
  },
  async mounted () {
    try {
      const response = await axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants')
      this.restaurants = response.data.data
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error;
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
  <div id="app">
    <div v-if="error">
      {{ error }}
    </div>
    <ul v-else>
      <li v-for="restaurant in restaurants" :key="restaurant.id">
        {{ restaurant.name }}
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>

<script>

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data () {
    return {
      restaurants: [],
      error: null,
      headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'}
    }
  },
  methods: {
    parseJSON: function (resp) {
      return (resp.json ? resp.json() : resp);
    },
    checkStatus: function (resp) {
      if (resp.status >= 200 && resp.status < 300) {
        return resp;
      }
      return this.parseJSON(resp).then((resp) => {
        throw resp;
      });
    }
  },
  async mounted () {
    try {
      const response = await fetch("http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants", {
        method: 'GET',
        headers: this.headers,
      }).then(this.checkStatus)
        .then(this.parseJSON);
      this.restaurants = response
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## POST Request your collection type

Execute a `POST` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to create a restaurant.

Be sure that you activated the `create` permission for the `restaurant` collection type and the `find` permission for the `category` Collection type.

In this example a `japanese` category has been created which has the id: 3.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example POST request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios
  .post('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
    name: 'Dolemon Sushi',
    description: 'Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious',
    categories: [3],
  })
  .then(response => {
    console.log(response);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

<Request title="Example POST request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    name: 'Dolemon Sushi',
    description: 'Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious',
    categories: [3],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Dolemon Sushi",
  "description": "Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious",
  "created_by": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "created_at": "2020-08-04T09:57:11.669Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-08-04T09:57:11.669Z",
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": 3,
      "name": "Japanese",
      "created_by": 1,
      "updated_by": 1,
      "created_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.164Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-07-31T11:36:23.172Z"
    }
  ]
}
```
</Response>

### Example

<Tabs> 

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
<div id="app">
  <div v-if="error">
    {{ error }}
  </div>

  <form id="form" v-on:submit="handleSubmit" v-else>
    <label for="name">Name</label>
    <input id="name" v-model="modifiedData.name" type="text" name="name">

    <label for="description">Description</label>
    <input id="description" v-model="modifiedData.description" type="text" name="description">

    <div>
      <br />
      Select categories
      <div v-for="category in allCategories" :key="category.id">
        <label>{{ category.name }}</label>
        <input
          type="checkbox"
          :value="category.id"
          v-model="modifiedData.categories"
          name="categories"
          :id="category.id"
        />
      </div>
    </div>

    <input type="submit" value="Submit">
  </form>

</div>
</template>

<script>
import axios from 'axios'

export default {
  name: 'App',
  data() {
    return {
      allCategories: [],
      modifiedData: {
        name: '',
        description: '',
        categories: [],
      },
      error: null
    }
  },
  async mounted() {
    try {
      const response = await axios.get('http://localhost:1337/api/categories')
      this.allCategories = response.data;
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error;
    }
  },
  methods: {
    handleSubmit: async function(e) {
      e.preventDefault();

      try {
        const response = await axios.post('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', this.modifiedData)
        console.log(response);
      } catch(error) {
        this.error = error;
      }
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">

`./src/App.vue`

```js
<template>
<div id="app">
  <div v-if="error">
    {{ error }}
  </div>

  <form id="form" v-on:submit="handleSubmit" v-else>
    <h3>Restaurants</h3>
    <br>

    <label for="name">Name</label>
    <input id="name" v-model="modifiedData.name" type="text" name="name">

    <label for="description">Description</label>
    <input id="description" v-model="modifiedData.description" type="text" name="description">
    <div>
      <br />
      <b>Select categories</b>
      <br>
      <div v-for="category in allCategories" :key="category.id">
        <label>{{ category.name }}</label>
        <input
          type="checkbox"
          :value="category.id"
          v-model="modifiedData.categories"
          name="categories"
          :id="category.id"
        />
      </div>
    </div>
    <br>

    <input type="submit" value="Submit">
  </form>

</div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  name: 'App',
  data() {
    return {
      allCategories: [],
      modifiedData: {
        name: '',
        description: '',
        categories: [],
      },
      error: null,
      headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'}
    }
  },
  async mounted() {
    try {
      const allCategories = await fetch("http://localhost:1337/api/categories", {
          method: 'GET',
          headers: this.headers,
        }).then(this.checkStatus)
          .then(this.parseJSON);
          this.allCategories = allCategories
    } catch (error) {
      this.error = error
    }
  },
  methods: {
    parseJSON: function (resp) {
      return (resp.json ? resp.json() : resp);
    },
    checkStatus: function (resp) {
      if (resp.status >= 200 && resp.status < 300) {
        return resp;
      }
      return this.parseJSON(resp).then((resp) => {
        throw resp;
      });
    },
    handleSubmit: async function(e) {
      e.preventDefault();

      try {
        const response = await fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants', {
            method: 'POST',
            headers: this.headers,
            body: JSON.stringify(this.modifiedData)
          }).then(this.checkStatus)
            .then(this.parseJSON);
            console.log(response);
      } catch (error) {
        this.error = error
      }
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## PUT Request your collection type

Execute a `PUT` request on the `restaurant` collection type in order to update the category of a restaurant.

Be sure that you activated the `put` permission for the `restaurant` collection type.



We consider that the id of your restaurant is `2`.
and the id of your category is `2`.

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="axios" label="axios">

<Request title="Example PUT request with axios">

```js
import axios from 'axios';

axios
  .put('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants/2', {
    categories: [2],
  })
  .then(response => {
    console.log(response);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="fetch" label="fetch">
<Request title="Example PUT request with fetch">

```js
fetch('http://localhost:1337/api/restaurants/2', {
  method: 'PUT',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    categories: [2],
  }),
})
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => {
    console.log(data);
  });
```

</Request>
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Response title="Example response">

```json
{
  "id": 2,
  "name": "Dolemon Sushi",
  "description": "Unmissable Japanese Sushi restaurant. The cheese and salmon makis are delicious",
  "created_by": null,
  "updated_by": null,
  "created_at": "2020-08-04T10:21:30.219Z",
  "updated_at": "2020-08-04T10:21:30.219Z",
  "categories": [
    {
      "id": 2,
      "name": "Brunch",
      "created_by": 1,
      "updated_by": 1,
      "created_at": "2020-08-04T10:24:26.901Z",
      "updated_at": "2020-08-04T10:24:26.911Z"
    }
  ]
}
```

</Response>
