docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/plugins/content-manager-apis.md, before:

---
title: Content Manager APIs
# description: todo
# tags: todo
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Content Manager APIs

Content-Manager APIs are part of the [Admin Panel API](/dev-docs/plugins/admin-panel-api). They are a way to add content or options from plugins to the [Content-Manager](/user-docs/content-manager), so you can extend the Content-Manager by adding functionality from your own plugin, just like you can do it with [Injection Zones](/dev-docs/plugins/admin-panel-api#injection-zones-api).

Strapi 5 provides 4 Content-Manager APIs, all accessible through `app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis`:

- [`addEditViewSidePanel`](#addeditviewsidepanel),
- [`addDocumentAction`](#adddocumentaction),
- [`addDocumentHeaderAction`](#adddocumentheaderaction),
- and [`addBulkAction`](#addbulkaction).

## General information

All the Content Manager APIs share the same API shape and must use components.

### API shape

All Content Manager APIs works in the same way: to use them, call them on your plugin’s [bootstrap](#bootstrap) function, in 2 possible ways:

- Passing an array with what you want to add. For example, the following code would add the ReleasesPanel at the end of the current EditViewSidePanels:
  
  ```jsx
  app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis.addEditViewSidePanel([ReleasesPanel])`
  ```

- Passing a function that receives the current elements and return the new ones. This is useful if, for example, you want to add something in a specific position in the list, like in the following code:

  ```jsx
  app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis.addEditViewSidePanel(
    (panels) => [SuperImportantPanel, ...panels]
  )
  ```

### Components

You need to pass components to the API in order to add things to the Content Manager. These components are basically functions that receive some properties and return and object with some shape (depending on the function). Each component’s return object is different based on the function you’re using, but they receive similar properties, depending on whether you use a ListView or EditView API. These properties include important information about the document(s) you are viewing or editing.

#### ListViewContext

```jsx
interface ListViewContext {
  /**
   * Will be either 'single-types' | 'collection-types'
   */
  collectionType: string;
  /**
   * The current selected documents in the table
   */
  documents: Document[];
  /**
   * The current content-type's model.
   */
  model: string;
}
```

#### EditViewContext

```jsx
interface EditViewContext {
  /**
   * This will only be null if the content-type
   * does not have draft & publish enabled.
   */
  activeTab: 'draft' | 'published' | null;
  /**
   * Will be either 'single-types' | 'collection-types'
   */
  collectionType: string;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  document?: Document;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  documentId?: string;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  meta?: DocumentMetadata;
  /**
   * The current content-type's model.
   */
  model: string;
}
```

:::tip
More information about types and APIs can be found in [Strapi's codebase, in the `/admin/src/content-manager.ts` file](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/v5/main/packages/core/content-manager/admin/src/content-manager.ts).
:::

**Example:**

Adding a panel to the sidebar can be done this way:

```jsx title="my-plugin/components/my-panel.ts"
import type { PanelComponent, PanelComponentProps } from '@strapi/content-manager/strapi-admin';

const Panel: PanelComponent = ({ 
  activeTab, 
  collectionType, 
  document, 
  documentId, 
  meta, 
  model 
}: PanelComponentProps) => {
  return {
    title: 'My Panel',
    content: <p>I'm on {activeTab}</p>
  }
}
```

## Available APIs

### `addEditViewSidePanel`

Use this to add new panels to the Edit view sidebar, just like in the following example where something is added to the Releases panel:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-edit-view-side-panel.png)

```jsx
addEditViewSidePanel(panels: DescriptionReducer<PanelComponent> | PanelComponent[])
```

#### PanelDescription

The interface of the API only receives the following 2 properties:

```jsx
{
  title: string;
  content: React.ReactNode;	
}
```

### `addDocumentAction`

Use this API to add more actions to the Edit view or the List View of the Content Manager. There are 3 positions available:

- `header` of the Edit view:

    ![Header of the Edit view](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-header.png)
- `panel` of the Edit view:

    ![Panel of the Edit View](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-panel.png)
- `table-row` of the List view:

    ![Table-row in the List View](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-tablerow.png)

```jsx
addDocumentAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<DocumentActionComponent> | DocumentActionComponent[])
```

#### DocumentActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following: 

```jsx
interface DocumentActionDescription {
    label: string;
    onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => Promise<boolean | void> | boolean | void;
    icon?: React.ReactNode;
    /**
     * @default false
     */
    disabled?: boolean;
    /**
     * @default 'panel'
     * @description Where the action should be rendered.
     */
    position?: DocumentActionPosition | DocumentActionPosition[];
    dialog?: DialogOptions | NotificationOptions | ModalOptions;
    /**
     * @default 'secondary'
     */
    variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
}

type DocumentActionPosition = 'panel' | 'header' | 'table-row';

interface DialogOptions {
    type: 'dialog';
    title: string;
    content?: React.ReactNode;
    variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
    onConfirm?: () => void | Promise<void>;
    onCancel?: () => void | Promise<void>;
}
interface NotificationOptions {
    type: 'notification';
    title: string;
    link?: {
        label: string;
        url: string;
        target?: string;
    };
    content?: string;
    onClose?: () => void;
    status?: NotificationConfig['type'];
    timeout?: number;
}
interface ModalOptions {
    type: 'modal';
    title: string;
    content: React.ComponentType<{
        onClose: () => void;
    }> | React.ReactNode;
    footer?: React.ComponentType<{
        onClose: () => void;
    }> | React.ReactNode;
    onClose?: () => void;
}
```

### `addDocumentHeaderAction`

Use this API to add more actions to the header of the Edit view of the Content Manager:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-header-action.png)

```jsx
addDocumentHeaderAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<HeaderActionComponent> | HeaderActionComponent[])
```

#### HeaderActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following:

```jsx
interface HeaderActionDescription {
  disabled?: boolean;
  label: string;
  icon?: React.ReactNode;
  type?: 'icon' | 'default';
  onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => Promise<boolean | void> | boolean | void;
  dialog?: DialogOptions;
  options?: Array<{
    disabled?: boolean;
    label: string;
    startIcon?: React.ReactNode;
    textValue?: string;
    value: string;
  }>;
  onSelect?: (value: string) => void;
  value?: string;
}

interface DialogOptions {
  type: 'dialog';
  title: string;
  content?: React.ReactNode;
  footer?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

### `addBulkAction`

Use this API to add buttons that show up when entries are selected on the List View of the Content Manager, just like the "Add to Release" button for instance:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-bulk-action.png)

```jsx
addBulkAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<BulkActionComponent> | BulkActionComponent[])
```

#### BulkActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following: 

```jsx
interface BulkActionDescription {
  dialog?: DialogOptions | NotificationOptions | ModalOptions;
  disabled?: boolean;
  icon?: React.ReactNode;
  label: string;
  onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => void;
  /**
   * @default 'default'
   */
  type?: 'icon' | 'default';
  /**
   * @default 'secondary'
   */
  variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
}
```

Commit message:

Fix SEO for Content Manager APIs

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/plugins/content-manager-apis.md, after:

---
title: Content Manager APIs
description: The Content Manager APIs reference lists the APIs available to plugins for adding actions and options to the Content Manager List view and Edit view.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- admin panel API
- plugins development
- plugins
---

# Content Manager APIs

Content-Manager APIs are part of the [Admin Panel API](/dev-docs/plugins/admin-panel-api). They are a way to add content or options from plugins to the [Content-Manager](/user-docs/content-manager), so you can extend the Content-Manager by adding functionality from your own plugin, just like you can do it with [Injection Zones](/dev-docs/plugins/admin-panel-api#injection-zones-api).

Strapi 5 provides 4 Content-Manager APIs, all accessible through `app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis`:

- [`addEditViewSidePanel`](#addeditviewsidepanel),
- [`addDocumentAction`](#adddocumentaction),
- [`addDocumentHeaderAction`](#adddocumentheaderaction),
- and [`addBulkAction`](#addbulkaction).

## General information

All the Content Manager APIs share the same API shape and must use components.

### API shape

All Content Manager APIs works in the same way: to use them, call them on your plugin’s [bootstrap](#bootstrap) function, in 2 possible ways:

- Passing an array with what you want to add. For example, the following code would add the ReleasesPanel at the end of the current EditViewSidePanels:
  
  ```jsx
  app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis.addEditViewSidePanel([ReleasesPanel])`
  ```

- Passing a function that receives the current elements and return the new ones. This is useful if, for example, you want to add something in a specific position in the list, like in the following code:

  ```jsx
  app.getPlugin('content-manager').apis.addEditViewSidePanel(
    (panels) => [SuperImportantPanel, ...panels]
  )
  ```

### Components

You need to pass components to the API in order to add things to the Content Manager. These components are basically functions that receive some properties and return and object with some shape (depending on the function). Each component’s return object is different based on the function you’re using, but they receive similar properties, depending on whether you use a ListView or EditView API. These properties include important information about the document(s) you are viewing or editing.

#### ListViewContext

```jsx
interface ListViewContext {
  /**
   * Will be either 'single-types' | 'collection-types'
   */
  collectionType: string;
  /**
   * The current selected documents in the table
   */
  documents: Document[];
  /**
   * The current content-type's model.
   */
  model: string;
}
```

#### EditViewContext

```jsx
interface EditViewContext {
  /**
   * This will only be null if the content-type
   * does not have draft & publish enabled.
   */
  activeTab: 'draft' | 'published' | null;
  /**
   * Will be either 'single-types' | 'collection-types'
   */
  collectionType: string;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  document?: Document;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  documentId?: string;
  /**
   * Will be undefined if someone is creating an entry.
   */
  meta?: DocumentMetadata;
  /**
   * The current content-type's model.
   */
  model: string;
}
```

:::tip
More information about types and APIs can be found in [Strapi's codebase, in the `/admin/src/content-manager.ts` file](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/v5/main/packages/core/content-manager/admin/src/content-manager.ts).
:::

**Example:**

Adding a panel to the sidebar can be done this way:

```jsx title="my-plugin/components/my-panel.ts"
import type { PanelComponent, PanelComponentProps } from '@strapi/content-manager/strapi-admin';

const Panel: PanelComponent = ({ 
  activeTab, 
  collectionType, 
  document, 
  documentId, 
  meta, 
  model 
}: PanelComponentProps) => {
  return {
    title: 'My Panel',
    content: <p>I'm on {activeTab}</p>
  }
}
```

## Available APIs

### `addEditViewSidePanel`

Use this to add new panels to the Edit view sidebar, just like in the following example where something is added to the Releases panel:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-edit-view-side-panel.png)

```jsx
addEditViewSidePanel(panels: DescriptionReducer<PanelComponent> | PanelComponent[])
```

#### PanelDescription

The interface of the API only receives the following 2 properties:

```jsx
{
  title: string;
  content: React.ReactNode;	
}
```

### `addDocumentAction`

Use this API to add more actions to the Edit view or the List View of the Content Manager. There are 3 positions available:

- `header` of the Edit view:

    ![Header of the Edit view](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-header.png)
- `panel` of the Edit view:

    ![Panel of the Edit View](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-panel.png)
- `table-row` of the List view:

    ![Table-row in the List View](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-action-tablerow.png)

```jsx
addDocumentAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<DocumentActionComponent> | DocumentActionComponent[])
```

#### DocumentActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following: 

```jsx
interface DocumentActionDescription {
    label: string;
    onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => Promise<boolean | void> | boolean | void;
    icon?: React.ReactNode;
    /**
     * @default false
     */
    disabled?: boolean;
    /**
     * @default 'panel'
     * @description Where the action should be rendered.
     */
    position?: DocumentActionPosition | DocumentActionPosition[];
    dialog?: DialogOptions | NotificationOptions | ModalOptions;
    /**
     * @default 'secondary'
     */
    variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
}

type DocumentActionPosition = 'panel' | 'header' | 'table-row';

interface DialogOptions {
    type: 'dialog';
    title: string;
    content?: React.ReactNode;
    variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
    onConfirm?: () => void | Promise<void>;
    onCancel?: () => void | Promise<void>;
}
interface NotificationOptions {
    type: 'notification';
    title: string;
    link?: {
        label: string;
        url: string;
        target?: string;
    };
    content?: string;
    onClose?: () => void;
    status?: NotificationConfig['type'];
    timeout?: number;
}
interface ModalOptions {
    type: 'modal';
    title: string;
    content: React.ComponentType<{
        onClose: () => void;
    }> | React.ReactNode;
    footer?: React.ComponentType<{
        onClose: () => void;
    }> | React.ReactNode;
    onClose?: () => void;
}
```

### `addDocumentHeaderAction`

Use this API to add more actions to the header of the Edit view of the Content Manager:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-document-header-action.png)

```jsx
addDocumentHeaderAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<HeaderActionComponent> | HeaderActionComponent[])
```

#### HeaderActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following:

```jsx
interface HeaderActionDescription {
  disabled?: boolean;
  label: string;
  icon?: React.ReactNode;
  type?: 'icon' | 'default';
  onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => Promise<boolean | void> | boolean | void;
  dialog?: DialogOptions;
  options?: Array<{
    disabled?: boolean;
    label: string;
    startIcon?: React.ReactNode;
    textValue?: string;
    value: string;
  }>;
  onSelect?: (value: string) => void;
  value?: string;
}

interface DialogOptions {
  type: 'dialog';
  title: string;
  content?: React.ReactNode;
  footer?: React.ReactNode;
}
```

### `addBulkAction`

Use this API to add buttons that show up when entries are selected on the List View of the Content Manager, just like the "Add to Release" button for instance:

![addEditViewSidePanel](/img/assets/content-manager-apis/add-bulk-action.png)

```jsx
addBulkAction(actions: DescriptionReducer<BulkActionComponent> | BulkActionComponent[])
```

#### BulkActionDescription

The interface and properties of the API look like the following: 

```jsx
interface BulkActionDescription {
  dialog?: DialogOptions | NotificationOptions | ModalOptions;
  disabled?: boolean;
  icon?: React.ReactNode;
  label: string;
  onClick?: (event: React.SyntheticEvent) => void;
  /**
   * @default 'default'
   */
  type?: 'icon' | 'default';
  /**
   * @default 'secondary'
   */
  variant?: ButtonProps['variant'];
}
```
