docusaurus/docs/user-docs/users-roles-permissions/managing-administrators.md, before:

---
title: Managing administrator accounts
displayed_sidebar: userDocsSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/_not-updated-to-v5.md'
import ScreenshotNumberReference from '/src/components/ScreenshotNumberReference.jsx';

# Managing administrator accounts

<NotV5/>

Administrators are the users of an admin panel of a Strapi application. Administrator accounts and roles are managed with the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) feature. It is available in the *Administration panel* section of the section of the ![Settings icon](/img/assets/icons/settings.svg) _Settings_ sub navigation.

The *Administration panel* section is divided into 2 sub-sections: *Roles* (see [Configuring administrator roles](configuring-administrator-roles.md)) and *Users*.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Manage administrator accounts"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_list-view.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_list-view_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

The *Users* sub-section of *Administration panel* displays a table listing all the administrators of your Strapi application.

From this interface, it is possible to:

- make a textual search <ScreenshotNumberReference number="1" /> to find specific administrators,
- set filters <ScreenshotNumberReference number="2" /> to find specific administrators,
- create a new administrator account (see [Creating a new account](#creating-a-new-account)) <ScreenshotNumberReference number="3" />,
- delete an administrator account (see [Deleting an account](#deleting-an-account)),
- or access information regarding an administrator account, and edit it (see [Editing an account](#editing-an-account)).

For each administrator listed in the table, their main account information are displayed, including name, email and attributed role. The status of their account is also indicated: active or inactive, depending on whether the administrator has already logged in to activate the account or not.

:::tip
Sorting can be enabled for most fields displayed in the table. Click on a field name, in the header of the table, to sort on that field.
:::

## Creating a new account

On the top right side of the *Administration panel > Users* interface, a **Create new user** button is displayed. It allows to create a new administrator account for your Strapi application.

To create a new administrator account:

1. Click on the **Create new user** button.
2. In the *Create new user* window, fill in the Details information about the new administrator:

  | User information | Instructions                                                                 |
  | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | First name       | (mandatory) Write the administrator's first name in the textbox.             |
  | Last name        | (mandatory) Write the administrator's last name in the textbox.              |
  | Email            | (mandatory) Write the administrator's complete email address in the textbox. |

3. Fill in the Login settings about the new administrator:

  | Setting          | Instructions                                                                                                    |
  | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | User's roles     | (mandatory) Choose from the drop-down list the role to attribute to the new administrator.                      |
  | Connect with SSO | (optional) Click **ON** or **OFF** to connect the new administrator account with SSO.                           |

4. Click on the **Create user** button in the bottom right corner of the *Add new user* window.
5. A URL appears at the top of the window: it is the URL to send the new administrator for them to log in for the first time to your Strapi application. Click the copy button ![Duplicate icon](/img/assets/icons/duplicate.svg) to copy the URL.
6. Click on the **Finish** button in the bottom right corner to finish the new administrator account creation. The new administrator should now be listed in the table.

:::note
The administrator invitation URL is accessible from the administrator's account until it has been activated.
:::

## Deleting an account

Administrator accounts can be deleted from the *Administration panel > Users* interface. It is possible to delete one or several administrator accounts at the same time.

To delete an administrator:

1. Click on the delete button ![Delete icon](/img/assets/icons/delete.svg) on the right side of the account's record, or select one or more accounts by ticking the boxes on the left side of the accounts' records then click on the ![Delete icon](/img/assets/icons/delete.svg) **Delete** button above the table.
2. In the deletion window, click on the **Yes, confirm** button to confirm the deletion.

## Editing an account

<ThemedImage
  alt="Edit an administrator account"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_edit-info.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_edit-info_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

The table displayed in the *Administration panel > Users* interface allows to access all information regarding each administrator, where it is also possible to edit that information.

To edit an administrator account:

1. Click on the name of the administrator whose account you want to edit.
2. In the *Details* area, edit your chosen account details:

| User information      | Instructions  |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- |
| First name            | Write the administrator's first name in the textbox.                                        |
| Last name             | Write the administrator's last name in the textbox.                                         |
| Email                 | Write the administrator's complete email address in the textbox.                            |
| Username              | Write the administrator's username in the textbox.                                          |
| Password              | Write the new administrator account's password in the textbox.                              |
| Password confirmation | Write the new password in the textbox for confirmation.                                     |
| Active                | Click on **TRUE** to activate the administrator's account.                                  |

3. (optional) In the *Login settings* area, edit the role of the administrator:

  - Click on the drop-down list to choose a new role, and/or add it to the already attributed one.
  - Click on the delete button ![Clear icon](/img/assets/icons/clear.svg) to delete an already attributed role.

4. Click on the **Save** button in the top right corner.

Commit message:

Update Users Roles & Permissions content for v5 + Add new icon

docusaurus/docs/user-docs/users-roles-permissions/managing-administrators.md, after:

---
title: Managing administrator accounts
displayed_sidebar: userDocsSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/_not-updated-to-v5.md'
import ScreenshotNumberReference from '/src/components/ScreenshotNumberReference.jsx';

# Managing administrator accounts

<NotV5/>

Administrators are the users of an admin panel of a Strapi application. Administrator accounts and roles are managed with the Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) feature. It is available in the *Administration panel* section of the section of the ![Settings icon](/img/assets/icons/settings.svg) _Settings_ sub navigation.

The *Administration panel* section is divided into 2 sub-sections: *Roles* (see [Configuring administrator roles](configuring-administrator-roles.md)) and *Users*.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Manage administrator accounts"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_list-view.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_list-view_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

The *Users* sub-section of *Administration panel* displays a table listing all the administrators of your Strapi application.

From this interface, it is possible to:

- make a textual search <ScreenshotNumberReference number="1" /> to find specific administrators,
- set filters <ScreenshotNumberReference number="2" /> to find specific administrators,
- create a new administrator account (see [Creating a new account](#creating-a-new-account)) <ScreenshotNumberReference number="3" />,
- delete an administrator account (see [Deleting an account](#deleting-an-account)),
- or access information regarding an administrator account, and edit it (see [Editing an account](#editing-an-account)).

For each administrator listed in the table, their main account information are displayed, including name, email and attributed role. The status of their account is also indicated: active or inactive, depending on whether the administrator has already logged in to activate the account or not.

:::tip
Sorting can be enabled for most fields displayed in the table. Click on a field name, in the header of the table, to sort on that field.
:::

## Creating a new account

On the top right side of the *Administration panel > Users* interface, a ![Mail icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Mail.svg) **Invite new user** button is displayed. It allows to create a new administrator account for your Strapi application.

To create a new administrator account:

1. Click on the ![Mail icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Mail.svg) **Invite new user** button.
2. In the *Invite new user* window, fill in the Details information about the new administrator:

  | User information | Instructions                                                                 |
  | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | First name       | (mandatory) Write the administrator's first name in the textbox.             |
  | Last name        | (mandatory) Write the administrator's last name in the textbox.              |
  | Email            | (mandatory) Write the administrator's complete email address in the textbox. |

3. Fill in the Login settings about the new administrator:

  | Setting          | Instructions                                                                                                    |
  | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | User's roles     | (mandatory) Choose from the drop-down list the role to attribute to the new administrator.                      |
  | Connect with SSO | (optional) Click **TRUE** or **FALSE** to connect the new administrator account with SSO.                       |

4. Click on the **Invite user** button in the bottom right corner of the *Add new user* window.
5. A URL appears at the top of the window: it is the URL to send the new administrator for them to log in for the first time to your Strapi application. Click the copy button ![Duplicate icon](/img/assets/icons/duplicate.svg) to copy the URL.
6. Click on the **Finish** button in the bottom right corner to finish the new administrator account creation. The new administrator should now be listed in the table.

:::note
The administrator invitation URL is accessible from the administrator's account until it has been activated.
:::

## Deleting an account

Administrator accounts can be deleted from the *Administration panel > Users* interface. It is possible to delete one or several administrator accounts at the same time.

To delete an administrator:

1. Click on the delete button ![Delete icon](/img/assets/icons/delete.svg) on the right side of the account's record, or select one or more accounts by ticking the boxes on the left side of the accounts' records then click on the ![Delete icon](/img/assets/icons/delete.svg) **Delete** button above the table.
2. In the deletion window, click on the **Confirm** button to confirm the deletion.

## Editing an account

<ThemedImage
  alt="Edit an administrator account"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_edit-info.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/users-permissions/administrator_edit-info_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

The table displayed in the *Administration panel > Users* interface allows to access all information regarding each administrator, where it is also possible to edit that information.

To edit an administrator account:

1. Click on the name of the administrator whose account you want to edit.
2. In the *User details* area, edit your chosen account details:

| User information      | Instructions  |
| --------------------- | ----------------------- |
| First name            | Write the administrator's first name in the textbox.                                        |
| Last name             | Write the administrator's last name in the textbox.                                         |
| Email                 | Write the administrator's complete email address in the textbox.                            |
| Username              | Write the administrator's username in the textbox.                                          |
| Password              | Write the new administrator account's password in the textbox.                              |
| Confirm password      | Write the new password in the textbox for confirmation.                                     |
| Active                | Click on **TRUE** to activate the administrator's account.                                  |

3. (optional) In the *Roles* area, edit the role of the administrator:

  - Click on the drop-down list to choose a new role, and/or add it to the already attributed one.
  - Click on the delete button ![Clear icon](/img/assets/icons/clear.svg) to delete an already attributed role.

4. Click on the **Save** button in the top right corner.
