docusaurus/docs/cms/admin-panel-customization/locales-translations.md, before:

---
title: Locales & translations
description: Learn how to update locales and extend translations in the Strapi admin panel.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
sidebar_label: Locales & translations
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- admin panel
- admin panel customization
---

# Locales & translations
## Locales

To update the list of available locales in the admin panel, use the `config.locales` array:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```jsx title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["ru", "zh"],
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```jsx title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["ru", "zh"],
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note NOTES

- The `en` locale cannot be removed from the build as it is both the fallback (i.e. if a translation is not found in a locale, the `en` will be used) and the default locale (i.e. used when a user opens the administration panel for the first time).
- The full list of available locales is accessible on <ExternalLink to="https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/v4.0.0/packages/plugins/i18n/server/constants/iso-locales.json" text="Strapi's Github repo"/>.

:::

### Extending translations

Translation key/value pairs are declared in `@strapi/admin/admin/src/translations/[language-name].json` files. These keys can be extended through the `config.translations` key:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        Users: "Utilisateurs",
        City: "CITY (FRENCH)",
        // Customize the label of the Content Manager table.
        Id: "ID french",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        Users: "Utilisateurs",
        City: "CITY (FRENCH)",
        // Customize the label of the Content Manager table.
        Id: "ID french",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

A plugin's key/value pairs are declared independently in the plugin's files at `./admin/src/translations/[language-name].json`. These key/value pairs can similarly be extended in the `config.translations` key by prefixing the key with the plugin's name (i.e. `[plugin name].[key]: 'value'`) as in the following example:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        // Translate a plugin's key/value pair by adding the plugin's name as a prefix
        // In this case, we translate the "plugin.name" key of plugin "content-type-builder"
        "content-type-builder.plugin.name": "Constructeur de Type-Contenu",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        // Translate a plugin's key/value pair by adding the plugin's name as a prefix
        // In this case, we translate the "plugin.name" key of plugin "content-type-builder"
        "content-type-builder.plugin.name": "Constructeur de Type-Contenu",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If more translations files should be added, place them in `./src/admin/extensions/translations` folder.

Commit message:

Add intro. to Logos and Locales & translations page

docusaurus/docs/cms/admin-panel-customization/locales-translations.md, after:

---
title: Locales & translations
description: Learn how to update locales and extend translations in the Strapi admin panel.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
sidebar_label: Locales & translations
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- admin panel
- admin panel customization
---

# Locales & translations

The admin panel always ships with English translations but can display additional languages. You can also override any text that appears in the interface.
This page shows how to define your own locales and extend Strapi or plugin translations from the project codebase. For a broader view of branding options, see [Admin panel customization](/cms/admin-panel-customization).

## Locales

To update the list of available locales in the admin panel, use the `config.locales` array:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```jsx title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["ru", "zh"],
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```jsx title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["ru", "zh"],
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note NOTES

- The `en` locale cannot be removed from the build as it is both the fallback (i.e. if a translation is not found in a locale, the `en` will be used) and the default locale (i.e. used when a user opens the administration panel for the first time).
- The full list of available locales is accessible on <ExternalLink to="https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/v4.0.0/packages/plugins/i18n/server/constants/iso-locales.json" text="Strapi's Github repo"/>.

:::

### Extending translations

Translation key/value pairs are declared in `@strapi/admin/admin/src/translations/[language-name].json` files. These keys can be extended through the `config.translations` key:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        Users: "Utilisateurs",
        City: "CITY (FRENCH)",
        // Customize the label of the Content Manager table.
        Id: "ID french",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        Users: "Utilisateurs",
        City: "CITY (FRENCH)",
        // Customize the label of the Content Manager table.
        Id: "ID french",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

A plugin's key/value pairs are declared independently in the plugin's files at `./admin/src/translations/[language-name].json`. These key/value pairs can similarly be extended in the `config.translations` key by prefixing the key with the plugin's name (i.e. `[plugin name].[key]: 'value'`) as in the following example:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.js"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        // Translate a plugin's key/value pair by adding the plugin's name as a prefix
        // In this case, we translate the "plugin.name" key of plugin "content-type-builder"
        "content-type-builder.plugin.name": "Constructeur de Type-Contenu",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```js title="./my-app/src/admin/app.ts"
export default {
  config: {
    locales: ["fr"],
    translations: {
      fr: {
        "Auth.form.email.label": "test",
        // Translate a plugin's key/value pair by adding the plugin's name as a prefix
        // In this case, we translate the "plugin.name" key of plugin "content-type-builder"
        "content-type-builder.plugin.name": "Constructeur de Type-Contenu",
      },
    },
  },
  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If more translations files should be added, place them in `./src/admin/extensions/translations` folder.
