docusaurus/docs/cms/admin-panel-customization/logos.md, before:

---
title: Logos
description: Customize the logos displayed in Strapi's admin panel.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
sidebar_label: Logos
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- admin panel
- admin panel customization
---

# Logos

The Strapi admin panel displays a logo in 2 different locations, represented by 2 different keys in the admin panel configuration:

| Location in the UI     | Configuration key to update |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| On the login page      | `config.auth.logo`          |
| In the main navigation | `config.menu.logo`          |

:::note
Both logos can also be customized directly via the admin panel (see [Customizing the logo](/cms/features/admin-panel)).
Logos uploaded via the admin panel supersede any logo set through the configuration files.
:::

### Logos location in the admin panel

<!--TODO: update screenshot #2 -->

The logo handled by `config.auth.logo` logo is only shown on the login screen:

![Location of the auth logo](/img/assets/development/config-auth-logo.png)

The logo handled by `config.menu.logo` logo is located in the main navigation at the top left corner of the admin panel:

![Location of Menu logo](/img/assets/development/config-menu-logo.png)

### Updating logos

To update the logos, put image files in the `/src/admin/extensions` folder, import these files in `src/admin/app.[tsx|js]` and update the corresponding keys as in the following example:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```jsx title="/src/admin/app.js"
import AuthLogo from "./extensions/my-auth-logo.png";
import MenuLogo from "./extensions/my-menu-logo.png";

export default {
  config: {
    // … other configuration properties 
    auth: { // Replace the Strapi logo in auth (login) views
      logo: AuthLogo,
    },
    menu: { // Replace the Strapi logo in the main navigation
      logo: MenuLogo,
    },
    // … other configuration properties 

  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```jsx title="/src/admin/app.ts"
import AuthLogo from "./extensions/my-auth-logo.png";
import MenuLogo from "./extensions/my-menu-logo.png";

export default {
  config: {
    // … other configuration properties 
    auth: { // Replace the Strapi logo in auth (login) views
      logo: AuthLogo,
    },
    menu: { // Replace the Strapi logo in the main navigation
      logo: MenuLogo,
    },
    // … other configuration properties 

  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
There is no size limit for image files set through the configuration files.
:::

Commit message:

Add intro. to Logos and Locales & translations page

docusaurus/docs/cms/admin-panel-customization/logos.md, after:

---
title: Logos
description: Customize the logos displayed in Strapi's admin panel.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
sidebar_label: Logos
toc_max_heading_level: 4
tags:
- admin panel
- admin panel customization
---

# Logos

Strapi's admin panel displays its branding on both the login screen and in the main navigation. Replacing these images allows you to match the interface to your identity. This page shows how to override the two logo files via the admin panel configuration. If you prefer uploading them directly in the UI, see [Customizing the logo](/cms/features/admin-panel#customizing-the-logo).

The Strapi admin panel displays a logo in 2 different locations, represented by 2 different keys in the admin panel configuration:

| Location in the UI     | Configuration key to update |
| ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| On the login page      | `config.auth.logo`          |
| In the main navigation | `config.menu.logo`          |

:::note
Both logos can also be customized directly via the admin panel (see [Customizing the logo](/cms/features/admin-panel)).
Logos uploaded via the admin panel supersede any logo set through the configuration files.
:::

### Logos location in the admin panel

<!--TODO: update screenshot #2 -->

The logo handled by `config.auth.logo` logo is only shown on the login screen:

![Location of the auth logo](/img/assets/development/config-auth-logo.png)

The logo handled by `config.menu.logo` logo is located in the main navigation at the top left corner of the admin panel:

![Location of Menu logo](/img/assets/development/config-menu-logo.png)

### Updating logos

To update the logos, put image files in the `/src/admin/extensions` folder, import these files in `src/admin/app.[tsx|js]` and update the corresponding keys as in the following example:

<Tabs groupId="js-ts">
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```jsx title="/src/admin/app.js"
import AuthLogo from "./extensions/my-auth-logo.png";
import MenuLogo from "./extensions/my-menu-logo.png";

export default {
  config: {
    // … other configuration properties 
    auth: { // Replace the Strapi logo in auth (login) views
      logo: AuthLogo,
    },
    menu: { // Replace the Strapi logo in the main navigation
      logo: MenuLogo,
    },
    // … other configuration properties 

  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ts" label="TypeScript">

```jsx title="/src/admin/app.ts"
import AuthLogo from "./extensions/my-auth-logo.png";
import MenuLogo from "./extensions/my-menu-logo.png";

export default {
  config: {
    // … other configuration properties 
    auth: { // Replace the Strapi logo in auth (login) views
      logo: AuthLogo,
    },
    menu: { // Replace the Strapi logo in the main navigation
      logo: MenuLogo,
    },
    // … other configuration properties 

  bootstrap() {},
};
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
There is no size limit for image files set through the configuration files.
:::
