docusaurus/docs/cloud/getting-started/cloud-fundamentals.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud fundamentals'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
slug: /cloud/cloud-fundamentals
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
- Strapi Cloud
- concepts
---

# Strapi Cloud fundamentals <UpdatedBadge />

Before going any further into this Strapi Cloud documentation, we recommend you to acknowledge the main concepts below. They will help you to understand how Strapi Cloud works, and ensure a smooth Strapi Cloud experience.

- **Hosting Platform** <br/> Strapi Cloud is a hosting platform that allows to deploy already existing Strapi projects created with Strapi CMS (Content Management System). Strapi Cloud is *not* the SaaS (Software as a Service) version of Strapi CMS. Feel free to refer to the [CMS documentation](https://docs.strapi.io/cms/intro) to learn more about Strapi CMS.

- **Strapi Cloud Pricing Plans** <br/> As a Strapi Cloud user you have the choice between 3 tiers: Essential, Pro and Scale. Depending on the tier, you have access to different functionalities, support and customization options (see [Pricing page](https://strapi.io/pricing-cloud) for more details). In this Strapi Cloud documentation, the <CloudEssentialBadge />, <CloudProBadge />, and <CloudScaleBadge /> badges can be displayed below a section's title to indicate for which tier the feature is available.

- **Types of Strapi Cloud users** <br/> There can be 2 types of users on a Strapi Cloud project: owners and maintainers. The owner is the one who has created the project and has therefore access to all features and options for the project. Maintainers are users who have been invited to contribute to an already created project by its owner. Maintainers, as documented in the [Collaboration](/cloud/projects/collaboration) page, cannot view and access all features and options from the Strapi Cloud dashboard.

- **Support** <br/> The level of support provided by the Strapi Support team depends on the Strapi Cloud tier you subscribed for. The Essential and Pro tiers include Basic support while the Scale tier includes Standard support. Please refer to the [dedicated support article](https://support.strapi.io/support/solutions/articles/67000680833-what-is-supported-by-the-strapi-team#Not-Supported) for all details regarding support levels.

Commit message:

Free Cloud plan (#2492) (#2493)
* Update

* Update the deployment pages

* Add missing screenshots

* Update tier → plan

* Update usage & billing

* Update Cloud CLI

* Mention scale-to-zero and cold start

* Update runtime logs

* Update settings

* Update project list screenshots

* Fix CSS

* Revert bad CSS fix

docusaurus/docs/cloud/getting-started/cloud-fundamentals.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud fundamentals'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
slug: /cloud/cloud-fundamentals
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
- Strapi Cloud
- concepts
---

# Strapi Cloud fundamentals <UpdatedBadge />

Before going any further into this Strapi Cloud documentation, we recommend you to acknowledge the main concepts below. They will help you to understand how Strapi Cloud works, and ensure a smooth Strapi Cloud experience.

- **Hosting Platform** <br/> Strapi Cloud is a hosting platform that allows to deploy already existing Strapi projects created with Strapi CMS (Content Management System). Strapi Cloud is *not* the SaaS (Software as a Service) version of Strapi CMS. Feel free to refer to the [CMS documentation](https://docs.strapi.io/cms/intro) to learn more about Strapi CMS.

- **Strapi Cloud Pricing Plans** <br/> As a Strapi Cloud user you have the choice between 4 plans: Free, Essential, Pro and Scale. Depending on the plan, you have access to different functionalities, support and customization options (see [Pricing page](https://strapi.io/pricing-cloud) for more details). In this Strapi Cloud documentation, the <CloudEssentialBadge />, <CloudProBadge />, and <CloudScaleBadge /> badges can be displayed below a section's title to indicate that the feature is only available starting from the corresponding paid plan. If no badge is shown, the feature is available on the Free plan.

- **Types of Strapi Cloud users** <br/> There can be 2 types of users on a Strapi Cloud project: owners and maintainers. The owner is the one who has created the project and has therefore access to all features and options for the project. Maintainers are users who have been invited to contribute to an already created project by its owner. Maintainers, as documented in the [Collaboration](/cloud/projects/collaboration) page, cannot view and access all features and options from the Strapi Cloud dashboard.

- **Support** <br/> The level of support provided by the Strapi Support team depends on the Strapi Cloud plan you subscribed for. The Free plan does not include access to support. The Essential and Pro plans include Basic support while the Scale plan includes Standard support. Please refer to the [dedicated support article](https://support.strapi.io/support/solutions/articles/67000680833-what-is-supported-by-the-strapi-team#Not-Supported) for all details regarding support levels.
