docusaurus/docs/cloud/getting-started/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
slug: /cloud/intro
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
- introduction
- deployment
- Strapi Cloud
---

# Welcome to the Strapi Cloud Docs!

<SubtleCallout title="Developer Docs, User Guide, and Strapi Cloud documentation" emoji="📍">

The documentation for Strapi contains 3 main sections, accessible from the top navigation bar:

- 🧑‍💻 The **[Developer Docs](/dev-docs/intro)** contain all the technical information related to the setup, advanced usage, customization, and update of your Strapi v5 application.
- 🧑‍🏫 The **[User Guide](/user-docs/intro)** is all about using Strapi's admin panel.
- ☁️ The **Strapi Cloud** documentation that you're currently reading is about deploying your Strapi application to Strapi Cloud and managing your Strapi Cloud projects and settings.

</SubtleCallout>

This documentation contains all technical documentation related to the setup, deployment, update and customization of your Strapi Cloud account and applications.

## What is Strapi Cloud

[Strapi Cloud](https://strapi.io/cloud) is a hosting platform that allows you to deploy your Strapi applications in a matter of minutes. It is a fully managed content platform built on top of Strapi, the leading open-source headless CMS.

Strapi Cloud enables you to increase your content velocity without having to compromise on customization needs and requirements. Development teams can rely on Strapi Cloud to abstract away the complexity of infrastructure management while keeping your development workflow and extending the core capabilities of Strapi. Content managers can use Strapi Cloud to autonomously manage all types of content and benefit from a complete set of content collaboration, security, and compliance features.

## What you will find here

:::prerequisites
The typical workflow, which is recommended by the Strapi team, is:
1. Create your Strapi application locally (v4.8.2 or later).
2. Optionally, extend the application with plugins or custom code.
3. Version the application's codebase through your git provider (GitHub or GitLab).
4. Deploy the application with Strapi Cloud.
:::

The Strapi Cloud documentation that you are currently reading is organised in topics in a order that should correspond to your journey with the product. The following cards, on which you can click, will redirect you to the main topics and steps of your Strapi Cloud journey.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="☁️" title="Project creation" description="Step-by-step guide to guide you through the creation and deployment of a Strapi Cloud project." link="/cloud/getting-started/deployment" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="💸" title="Information on billing & usage" description="All details on Strapi Cloud plans & billing, including overages and project suspension." link="/cloud/getting-started/usage-billing" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🗃️" title="Projects overview" description="Information on how to access Strapi Cloud projects to view their details & usage, and manage them." link="/cloud/projects/overview" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="⚙️" title="Projects settings" description="Details on all the available settings for Strapi Cloud projects and how to configure them." link="/cloud/projects/settings"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🤝" title="Collaboration" description="Documentation for the Collaboration feature to invite other users to access and manage a project." link="/cloud/projects/collaboration"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🚀" title="Deployments management" description="All details on the deployment of a Strapi Cloud project, including triggering or cancelling a deployment." link="/cloud/projects/deploys" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🧾" title="Account billing & details" description="Information on Strapi Cloud subscriptions and how to manage, edit and cancel them." link="/cloud/account/account-billing" />
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

:::strapi Welcome to the Strapi community!
Strapi Cloud is built on top of Strapi, an open-source, community-oriented project. The Strapi team has at heart to share their vision and build the future of Strapi with the Strapi community. This is why the [roadmap](https://feedback.strapi.io) is open: as all insights are very important and will help steer the project in the right direction. Any community member is most welcome to share ideas and opinions there.

You can also join [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi), the [Forum](https://forum.strapi.io/), and the [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io) and benefit from the years of experience, knowledge, and contributions by the Strapi community as a whole.
:::

Commit message:

Fix missing description tags and 'v5' wording

docusaurus/docs/cloud/getting-started/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Introduction'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
description: The Strapi Cloud documentation contains all technical documentation related to the setup, deployment, update and customization of your Strapi Cloud account and applications.
slug: /cloud/intro
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
- introduction
- deployment
- Strapi Cloud
---

# Welcome to the Strapi Cloud Docs!

<SubtleCallout title="Developer Docs, User Guide, and Strapi Cloud documentation" emoji="📍">

The documentation for Strapi contains 3 main sections, accessible from the top navigation bar:

- 🧑‍💻 The **[Developer Docs](/dev-docs/intro)** contain all the technical information related to the setup, advanced usage, customization, and update of your Strapi 5 application.
- 🧑‍🏫 The **[User Guide](/user-docs/intro)** is all about using Strapi's admin panel.
- ☁️ The **Strapi Cloud** documentation that you're currently reading is about deploying your Strapi application to Strapi Cloud and managing your Strapi Cloud projects and settings.

</SubtleCallout>

This documentation contains all technical documentation related to the setup, deployment, update and customization of your Strapi Cloud account and applications.

## What is Strapi Cloud

[Strapi Cloud](https://strapi.io/cloud) is a hosting platform that allows you to deploy your Strapi applications in a matter of minutes. It is a fully managed content platform built on top of Strapi, the leading open-source headless CMS.

Strapi Cloud enables you to increase your content velocity without having to compromise on customization needs and requirements. Development teams can rely on Strapi Cloud to abstract away the complexity of infrastructure management while keeping your development workflow and extending the core capabilities of Strapi. Content managers can use Strapi Cloud to autonomously manage all types of content and benefit from a complete set of content collaboration, security, and compliance features.

## What you will find here

:::prerequisites
The typical workflow, which is recommended by the Strapi team, is:
1. Create your Strapi application locally (v4.8.2 or later).
2. Optionally, extend the application with plugins or custom code.
3. Version the application's codebase through your git provider (GitHub or GitLab).
4. Deploy the application with Strapi Cloud.
:::

The Strapi Cloud documentation that you are currently reading is organised in topics in a order that should correspond to your journey with the product. The following cards, on which you can click, will redirect you to the main topics and steps of your Strapi Cloud journey.

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="☁️" title="Project creation" description="Step-by-step guide to guide you through the creation and deployment of a Strapi Cloud project." link="/cloud/getting-started/deployment" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="💸" title="Information on billing & usage" description="All details on Strapi Cloud plans & billing, including overages and project suspension." link="/cloud/getting-started/usage-billing" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🗃️" title="Projects overview" description="Information on how to access Strapi Cloud projects to view their details & usage, and manage them." link="/cloud/projects/overview" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="⚙️" title="Projects settings" description="Details on all the available settings for Strapi Cloud projects and how to configure them." link="/cloud/projects/settings"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🤝" title="Collaboration" description="Documentation for the Collaboration feature to invite other users to access and manage a project." link="/cloud/projects/collaboration"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🚀" title="Deployments management" description="All details on the deployment of a Strapi Cloud project, including triggering or cancelling a deployment." link="/cloud/projects/deploys" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🧾" title="Account billing & details" description="Information on Strapi Cloud subscriptions and how to manage, edit and cancel them." link="/cloud/account/account-billing" />
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

:::strapi Welcome to the Strapi community!
Strapi Cloud is built on top of Strapi, an open-source, community-oriented project. The Strapi team has at heart to share their vision and build the future of Strapi with the Strapi community. This is why the [roadmap](https://feedback.strapi.io) is open: as all insights are very important and will help steer the project in the right direction. Any community member is most welcome to share ideas and opinions there.

You can also join [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi), the [Forum](https://forum.strapi.io/), and the [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io) and benefit from the years of experience, knowledge, and contributions by the Strapi community as a whole.
:::
