docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/plugins/development/plugin-cli.md, before:

---
title: Plugin CLI
description: Reference documentation for Strapi's Plugin CLI commands
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
tags:
  - backend server
  - plugin CLI
  - plugins
  - plugins development
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/\_not-updated-to-v5.md'

# Plugin CLI reference

<NotV5/>

The Plugin CLI is set of commands provided by the package [@strapi/sdk-plugin](https://github.com/strapi/sdk-plugin) orientated around developing plugins to use them as local plugins or to publish them on NPM and/or submit them to the Marketplace.

The present documentation lists the available Plugin CLI commands. The [associated guide](/dev-docs/plugins/guides/use-the-plugin-cli) illustrates how to use these commands to create a plugin from scratch, link it to an existing project, and publish it.

## npx @strapi/sdk-plugin init

Create a new plugin at a given path.

```bash
npx @strapi/sdk-plugin init
```

| Arguments |  Type  | Description        | Default                   |
| --------- | :----: | ------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `path`    | string | Path to the plugin | `./src/plugins/my-plugin` |

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

## strapi-plugin build

Bundle the strapi plugin for publishing.

```bash
strapi-plugin build
```

| Option         |  Type  | Description                                                                                                       | Default |
| -------------- | :----: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `--force`      | string | Automatically answer "yes" to all prompts, including potentially destructive requests, and run non-interactively. | -       |
| `-d, --debug`  |   -    | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs                                                                           | false   |
| `--silent`     |   -    | Do not log anything                                                                                               | false   |
| `--minify`     |   -    | Minify the output                                                                                                 | true    |
| `--sourcemaps` |   -    | Produce sourcemaps                                                                                                | false   |

## strapi-plugin watch:link

Recompiles the plugin automatically on changes and runs `yalc push --publish`.

```bash
strapi-plugin watch:link
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

## strapi-plugin watch

Watch and compile the Strapi plugin for local development.

```bash
strapi-plugin watch
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

## strapi-plugin verify

Verify the output of the plugin before publishing it.

```bash
strapi-plugin verify
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

Commit message:

Update sdk-plugin init with new options

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/plugins/development/plugin-cli.md, after:

---
title: Plugin CLI
description: Reference documentation for Strapi's Plugin CLI commands
displayed_sidebar: devDocsSidebar
tags:
  - backend server
  - plugin CLI
  - plugins
  - plugins development
---

import NotV5 from '/docs/snippets/\_not-updated-to-v5.md'

# Plugin CLI reference

<NotV5/>

The Plugin CLI is set of commands provided by the package [@strapi/sdk-plugin](https://github.com/strapi/sdk-plugin) orientated around developing plugins to use them as local plugins or to publish them on NPM and/or submit them to the Marketplace.

The present documentation lists the available Plugin CLI commands. The [associated guide](/dev-docs/plugins/guides/use-the-plugin-cli) illustrates how to use these commands to create a plugin from scratch, link it to an existing project, and publish it.

## npx @strapi/sdk-plugin init

Create a new plugin at a given path.

```bash
npx @strapi/sdk-plugin init
```

| Arguments |  Type  | Description        | Default                   |
| --------- | :----: | ------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `path`    | string | Path to the plugin | `./src/plugins/my-plugin` |

| Option         | Type | Description                             | Default |
| -------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug`  |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`     |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |
| `--use-npm`    |  -   | Use npm as the plugin package manager   | false   |
| `--use-yarn`   |  -   | Use yarn as the plugin package manager  | false   |
| `--use-pnpm`   |  -   | Use pnpm as the plugin package manager  | false   |
| `--no-install` |  -   | Do not install dependencies             | false   |

## strapi-plugin build

Bundle the strapi plugin for publishing.

```bash
strapi-plugin build
```

| Option         |  Type  | Description                                                                                                       | Default |
| -------------- | :----: | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `--force`      | string | Automatically answer "yes" to all prompts, including potentially destructive requests, and run non-interactively. | -       |
| `-d, --debug`  |   -    | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs                                                                           | false   |
| `--silent`     |   -    | Do not log anything                                                                                               | false   |
| `--minify`     |   -    | Minify the output                                                                                                 | true    |
| `--sourcemaps` |   -    | Produce sourcemaps                                                                                                | false   |

## strapi-plugin watch:link

Recompiles the plugin automatically on changes and runs `yalc push --publish`.

```bash
strapi-plugin watch:link
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

## strapi-plugin watch

Watch and compile the Strapi plugin for local development.

```bash
strapi-plugin watch
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |

## strapi-plugin verify

Verify the output of the plugin before publishing it.

```bash
strapi-plugin verify
```

| Option        | Type | Description                             | Default |
| ------------- | :--: | --------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `-d, --debug` |  -   | Enable debugging mode with verbose logs | false   |
| `--silent`    |  -   | Do not log anything                     | false   |
