docusaurus/docs/user-docs/intro.md, before:

---
displayed_sidebar: userDocsSidebar
sidebar_label: Welcome!
tags:
- admin panel
- guides
- introduction
---

# Welcome to the Strapi User Guide!

<SubtleCallout title="Developer Docs, User Guide, and Strapi Cloud documentation" emoji="📍">

The documentation for Strapi contains 3 main sections, accessible from the top navigation bar:

- 🧑‍💻 The **[Developer Docs](/dev-docs/intro)** contain all the technical information related to the setup, advanced usage, customization, and update of your Strapi 5 application.
- 🧑‍🏫 The **User Guide** that you're currently reading is all about using Strapi's admin panel.
- ☁️ The **[Strapi Cloud](/cloud/intro)** documentation is about deploying your Strapi application to Strapi Cloud and managing your Strapi Cloud projects and settings.

</SubtleCallout>

This user guide contains the functional documentation related to all features available in the main navigation of your Strapi application.

Once you have logged in, you can access your Strapi admin panel:

<ThemedImage
alt="Homepage of the Admin Panel"
sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/getting-started/admin-panel-homepage.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/getting-started/admin-panel-homepage_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

If you are not sure where to begin on this User Guide, we suggest you to:

1. Go through the [User Guide fundamentals](/user-docs/getting-started/user-guide-fundamentals).
2. Follow the [Setting up the admin panel](/user-docs/getting-started/setting-up-admin-panel) guide.
3. Continue your journey through the various User Guide sections. The ["What you will find here"](#what-you-will-find-here) section gives you an overview of the available topics.

## What you will find here

The table of content in this User Guide displays 7 main sections.

Clicking on any of the following cards will direct you to the introductory page for that section, with additional details and concepts:

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📝" title="Content Manager" description="Manage and publish all content types created with the Content-type Builder." link="/user-docs/content-manager" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📚" title="Content Type Builder" description="Build your data structure by creating and managing content-types." link="/user-docs/content-type-builder" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🗃️" title="Media Library" description="Upload and manage all assets and organize them into folders." link="/user-docs/media-library" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📅" title="Releases" description="Arrange entries into containers for publishing and unpublishing actions." link="/user-docs/releases/introduction"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🔐" title="Users, Roles & Permission" description="Assign permission to roles, which are then associated with users." link="/user-docs/users-roles-permissions"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🔗" title="Plugins" description="Find additional functionalities to extend and customize your applications." link="/user-docs/plugins" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="⚙️" title="General Settings" description="Access features needed set up your Strapi admin panel." link="/user-docs/settings/introduction" />
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

:::strapi Welcome to the Strapi community!

If you have any trouble with your Strapi experience, you can reach us through [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/) or our [forum](https://forum.strapi.io/)! The Strapi Community and Strapi team are always available to answer your questions or help you with anything!

Commit message:

Fix SEO issues (#2233)
* Fix duplicate SEO title

* Fix missing description tags and 'v5' wording

* Fix more SEO description tags

* Add redirection for select to fields (DS API)

* Fix hreflang

docusaurus/docs/user-docs/intro.md, after:

---
displayed_sidebar: userDocsSidebar
description: The Strapi User Guide contains the functional documentation related to all features available in the main navigation of your Strapi application.
sidebar_label: Welcome!
tags:
- admin panel
- guides
- introduction
---

# Welcome to the Strapi User Guide!

<SubtleCallout title="Developer Docs, User Guide, and Strapi Cloud documentation" emoji="📍">

The documentation for Strapi contains 3 main sections, accessible from the top navigation bar:

- 🧑‍💻 The **[Developer Docs](/dev-docs/intro)** contain all the technical information related to the setup, advanced usage, customization, and update of your Strapi 5 application.
- 🧑‍🏫 The **User Guide** that you're currently reading is all about using Strapi's admin panel.
- ☁️ The **[Strapi Cloud](/cloud/intro)** documentation is about deploying your Strapi application to Strapi Cloud and managing your Strapi Cloud projects and settings.

</SubtleCallout>

This user guide contains the functional documentation related to all features available in the main navigation of your Strapi application.

Once you have logged in, you can access your Strapi admin panel:

<ThemedImage
alt="Homepage of the Admin Panel"
sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/getting-started/admin-panel-homepage.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/getting-started/admin-panel-homepage_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

If you are not sure where to begin on this User Guide, we suggest you to:

1. Go through the [User Guide fundamentals](/user-docs/getting-started/user-guide-fundamentals).
2. Follow the [Setting up the admin panel](/user-docs/getting-started/setting-up-admin-panel) guide.
3. Continue your journey through the various User Guide sections. The ["What you will find here"](#what-you-will-find-here) section gives you an overview of the available topics.

## What you will find here

The table of content in this User Guide displays 7 main sections.

Clicking on any of the following cards will direct you to the introductory page for that section, with additional details and concepts:

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📝" title="Content Manager" description="Manage and publish all content types created with the Content-type Builder." link="/user-docs/content-manager" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📚" title="Content Type Builder" description="Build your data structure by creating and managing content-types." link="/user-docs/content-type-builder" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🗃️" title="Media Library" description="Upload and manage all assets and organize them into folders." link="/user-docs/media-library" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="📅" title="Releases" description="Arrange entries into containers for publishing and unpublishing actions." link="/user-docs/releases/introduction"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🔐" title="Users, Roles & Permission" description="Assign permission to roles, which are then associated with users." link="/user-docs/users-roles-permissions"/>
  <CustomDocCard emoji="🔗" title="Plugins" description="Find additional functionalities to extend and customize your applications." link="/user-docs/plugins" />
  <CustomDocCard emoji="⚙️" title="General Settings" description="Access features needed set up your Strapi admin panel." link="/user-docs/settings/introduction" />
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

:::strapi Welcome to the Strapi community!

If you have any trouble with your Strapi experience, you can reach us through [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/) or our [forum](https://forum.strapi.io/)! The Strapi Community and Strapi team are always available to answer your questions or help you with anything!
