docusaurus/docs/cloud/cli/cloud-cli.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud CLI'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
- Strapi Cloud
- CLI
- deployment
pagination_next: cloud/advanced/database
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI) <UpdatedBadge />

Strapi Cloud comes with a Command Line Interface (CLI) which allows you to log in and out, and to deploy a local project without it having to be hosted on a remote git repository. The CLI works with both the `yarn` and `npm` package managers.

:::note
It is recommended to install Strapi locally only, which requires prefixing all of the following `strapi` commands with the package manager used for the project setup (e.g `npm run strapi help` or `yarn strapi help`) or a dedicated node package executor (e.g. `npx strapi help`).
:::

## strapi login

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:login`

Log in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi login
```

This command automatically opens a browser window to first ask you to confirm that the codes displayed in both the browser window and the terminal are the same. Then you will be able to log into Strapi Cloud via Google, GitHub or GitLab. Once the browser window confirms successful login, it can be safely closed.

If the browser window doesn't automatically open, the terminal will display a clickable link as well as the code to enter manually.

## strapi deploy

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:deploy`

Deploy a new local project (< 100MB) in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi deploy
```

This command must be used after the `login` one. It deploys a local Strapi project on Strapi Cloud, without having to host it on a remote git repository beforehand. The terminal will inform you when the project is successfully deployed on Strapi Cloud.

Once the project is first deployed on Strapi Cloud with the CLI, the `deploy` command can be reused to trigger a new deployment of the same project.

:::caution
The `deploy` command can only be used by new users who have never created a Strapi Cloud project, and for which the free trial is still available. Once a project is deployed with the CLI, it isn't possible to deploy another project on the same Strapi Cloud account with the CLI.
:::

:::note
Once you deployed your project, if you visit the Strapi Cloud dashboard, you may see some limitations as well as impacts due to creating a Strapi Cloud project that is not in a remote repository and which was deployed with the CLI.

- Some areas in the dashboard that are usually reserved to display information about the git provider will be blank.
- Some buttons, such as the **Trigger deploy** button, will be greyed out and unclickable since, unless you have [connected a git repository to your Strapi Cloud project](/cloud/getting-started/deployment-cli#automatically-deploying-subsequent-changes).
:::

## strapi link

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:link`

Links project in current folder to an existing project in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi link
```

This command connects your local project in the current directory with an existing project on your Strapi Cloud account. You will be prompted to select the project you wish to link from a list of available projects hosted on Strapi Cloud.

## strapi projects

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:projects`

Lists all Strapi Cloud projects associated with your account.

```bash
strapi projects
```


```bash
strapi link
```

This command connects your local project in the current directory with an existing project on your Strapi Cloud account. You will be prompted to select the project you wish to link from a list of available projects hosted on Strapi Cloud.

## strapi cloud environments <NewBadge /> {#cloud-environments}

**Alias:** `strapi cloud environment list`

Lists all environments associated with your Strapi Cloud Project.

```bash
strapi cloud environments
```

This command retrieves and displays a list of all environments belonging to your Strapi Cloud project.

## strapi logout

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:logout`

Log out of Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi logout
```

This command logs you out of Strapi Cloud. Once the `logout` command is run, a browser page will open and the terminal will display a confirmation message that you were successfully logged out. You will not be able to use the `deploy` command anymore.

Commit message:

feat(cli): strapi cloud environment link

docusaurus/docs/cloud/cli/cloud-cli.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: 'Cloud CLI'
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
- Strapi Cloud
- CLI
- deployment
pagination_next: cloud/advanced/database
---

# Command Line Interface (CLI) <UpdatedBadge />

Strapi Cloud comes with a Command Line Interface (CLI) which allows you to log in and out, and to deploy a local project without it having to be hosted on a remote git repository. The CLI works with both the `yarn` and `npm` package managers.

:::note
It is recommended to install Strapi locally only, which requires prefixing all of the following `strapi` commands with the package manager used for the project setup (e.g `npm run strapi help` or `yarn strapi help`) or a dedicated node package executor (e.g. `npx strapi help`).
:::

## strapi login

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:login`

Log in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi login
```

This command automatically opens a browser window to first ask you to confirm that the codes displayed in both the browser window and the terminal are the same. Then you will be able to log into Strapi Cloud via Google, GitHub or GitLab. Once the browser window confirms successful login, it can be safely closed.

If the browser window doesn't automatically open, the terminal will display a clickable link as well as the code to enter manually.

## strapi deploy

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:deploy`

Deploy a new local project (< 100MB) in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi deploy
```

This command must be used after the `login` one. It deploys a local Strapi project on Strapi Cloud, without having to host it on a remote git repository beforehand. 

When you use this command, you’ll be asked to select a target environment. To skip this prompt, you can either:
- Use the `-env` flag (e.g., `strapi deploy -env <environment-name>`)
- Set a default environment with `strapi cloud environment link` [command](#cloud-environment-link), so deployments automatically go to that environment.

The terminal will inform you when the project is successfully deployed on Strapi Cloud.

Once the project is first deployed on Strapi Cloud with the CLI, the `deploy` command can be reused to trigger a new deployment of the same project.

:::caution
The `deploy` command can only be used by new users who have never created a Strapi Cloud project, and for which the free trial is still available. Once a project is deployed with the CLI, it isn't possible to deploy another project on the same Strapi Cloud account with the CLI.
:::

:::note
Once you deployed your project, if you visit the Strapi Cloud dashboard, you may see some limitations as well as impacts due to creating a Strapi Cloud project that is not in a remote repository and which was deployed with the CLI.

- Some areas in the dashboard that are usually reserved to display information about the git provider will be blank.
- Some buttons, such as the **Trigger deploy** button, will be greyed out and unclickable since, unless you have [connected a git repository to your Strapi Cloud project](/cloud/getting-started/deployment-cli#automatically-deploying-subsequent-changes).
:::

## strapi link

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:link`

Links project in current folder to an existing project in Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi link
```

This command connects your local project in the current directory with an existing project on your Strapi Cloud account. You will be prompted to select the project you wish to link from a list of available projects hosted on Strapi Cloud.

## strapi projects

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:projects`

Lists all Strapi Cloud projects associated with your account.

```bash
strapi projects
```


```bash
strapi link
```

This command connects your local project in the current directory with an existing project on your Strapi Cloud account. You will be prompted to select the project you wish to link from a list of available projects hosted on Strapi Cloud.

## strapi cloud environments <NewBadge /> {#cloud-environments}

**Alias:** `strapi cloud environment list`

Lists all environments associated with your Strapi Cloud Project.

```bash
strapi cloud environments
```

This command retrieves and displays a list of all environments belonging to your Strapi Cloud project.

## strapi cloud environment link <NewBadge /> {#cloud-environment-link}

Links your local project to a specific environment in your Strapi Cloud project.

```bash
strapi cloud environment link
```

This command shows a list of all environments in your Strapi Cloud project and lets you choose one. The selected environment will then be the default for direct deployments.

## strapi logout

**Alias:** `strapi cloud:logout`

Log out of Strapi Cloud.

```bash
strapi logout
```

This command logs you out of Strapi Cloud. Once the `logout` command is run, a browser page will open and the terminal will display a confirmation message that you were successfully logged out. You will not be able to use the `deploy` command anymore.
