docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/api-tokens.md, before:

---
title: API Tokens
description: Learn how you can use API tokens to manage end-users authentication.
sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
- api tokens
- admin panel
- authentication
- users & permissions
---

# API Tokens

API tokens allow users to authenticate REST and GraphQL API queries (see [Developer Documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/api-tokens)). Administrators can manage API tokens from ![Settings icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Cog.svg) *Settings > Global settings > API Tokens*.

:::prerequisites Identity Card of the Feature
<Icon name="credit-card"/> **Plan:** Free feature. <br/>
<Icon name="user"/> **Role & permission:** Minimum "Access the API tokens settings page" in Roles > Settings - API tokens. <br/>
<Icon name="toggle-left"/> **Activation:** Available by default. <br/>
<Icon name="laptop"/> **Environment:** Available in both Development & Production environment.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="API tokens"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Configuration

The *API Tokens* settings sub-section displays a table listing all of the created API tokens.

The table displays each API token's name, description, date of creation, and date of last use. From the table, administrators can also:

- Click on the ![edit button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Pencil.svg) to edit an API token's name, description, type, duration or [regenerate the token](#regenerating-an-api-token).
- Click on the ![delete button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Trash.svg) to delete an API token.

### Creating a new API token

To create a new API token:

1. Click on the **Create new API Token** button.
2. In the API token edition interface, configure the new API token:

    | Setting name   | Instructions                                                             |
    | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
    | Name           | Write the name of the API token.                                         |
    | Description    | (optional) Write a description for the API token.                        |
    | Token duration | Choose a token duration: *7 days*, *30 days*, *90 days*, or *Unlimited*. |
    | Token type     | Choose a token type: *Read-only*, *Full access*, or *Custom*.            |

3. (optional) For the *Custom* token type, define specific permissions for your API endpoints by clicking on the content-type name and using checkboxes to enable or disable permissions.
4. Click on the **Save** button. The new API token will be displayed at the top of the interface, along with a copy button ![copy button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Duplicate.svg).

<ThemedImage
  alt="Custom API token"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token-custom.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token-custom_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

:::caution
For security reasons, API tokens are only shown right after they have been created. When refreshing the page or navigating elsewhere in the admin panel, the newly created API token will be hidden and will not be displayed again.
:::

### Regenerating an API token

To regenerate an API token:

1. Click on the API token's edit button.
2. Click on the **Regenerate** button.
3. Click on the **Regenerate** button to confirm in the dialog.
4. Copy the new API token displayed at the top of the interface.

## Usage

Commit message:

Add dev docs-related info. to API tokens feature

docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/api-tokens.md, after:

---
title: API Tokens
description: Learn how you can use API tokens to manage end-users authentication.
sidebar_position: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
- api tokens
- admin panel
- authentication
- users & permissions
---

# API Tokens

API tokens allow users to authenticate REST and GraphQL API queries (see [Developer Documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/api-tokens)). Administrators can manage API tokens from ![Settings icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Cog.svg) *Settings > Global settings > API Tokens*.

:::prerequisites Identity Card of the Feature
<Icon name="credit-card"/> **Plan:** Free feature. <br/>
<Icon name="user"/> **Role & permission:** Minimum "Access the API tokens settings page" in Roles > Settings - API tokens. <br/>
<Icon name="toggle-left"/> **Activation:** Available by default. <br/>
<Icon name="laptop"/> **Environment:** Available in both Development & Production environment.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="API tokens"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Configuration

Most configuration options for API tokens are available in the admin panel, and your Strapi project's code can be used to alter how API tokens are generated.

### Admin panel settings

The *API Tokens* settings sub-section displays a table listing all of the created API tokens.

The table displays each API token's name, description, date of creation, and date of last use. From the table, administrators can also:

- Click on the ![edit button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Pencil.svg) to edit an API token's name, description, type, duration or [regenerate the token](#regenerating-an-api-token).
- Click on the ![delete button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Trash.svg) to delete an API token.

#### Creating a new API token

To create a new API token:

1. Click on the **Create new API Token** button.
2. In the API token edition interface, configure the new API token:

    | Setting name   | Instructions                                                             |
    | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
    | Name           | Write the name of the API token.                                         |
    | Description    | (optional) Write a description for the API token.                        |
    | Token duration | Choose a token duration: *7 days*, *30 days*, *90 days*, or *Unlimited*. |
    | Token type     | Choose a token type: *Read-only*, *Full access*, or *Custom*.            |

3. (optional) For the *Custom* token type, define specific permissions for your API endpoints by clicking on the content-type name and using checkboxes to enable or disable permissions.
4. Click on the **Save** button. The new API token will be displayed at the top of the interface, along with a copy button ![copy button](/img/assets/icons/v5/Duplicate.svg).

<ThemedImage
  alt="Custom API token"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token-custom.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/settings/settings_api-token-custom_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

:::caution
For security reasons, API tokens are only shown right after they have been created. When refreshing the page or navigating elsewhere in the admin panel, the newly created API token will be hidden and will not be displayed again.
:::

#### Regenerating an API token

To regenerate an API token:

1. Click on the API token's edit button.
2. Click on the **Regenerate** button.
3. Click on the **Regenerate** button to confirm in the dialog.
4. Copy the new API token displayed at the top of the interface.

### Code-based configuration

New API tokens are generated using a salt. This salt is automatically generated by Strapi and stored in environment variables (the `.env` file) as `API_TOKEN_SALT`.

The salt can be customized:

- either by updating the string value for `apiToken.salt` in `./config/admin.js` (see [admin panel configuration documentation](/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel))
- or by creating an `API_TOKEN_SALT` [environment variable](/dev-docs/configurations/environment#strapi) in the `.env` file of the project

:::caution
Changing the salt invalidates all the existing API tokens.
:::

## Usage

Using API tokens allows executing a request on [REST API](/dev-docs/api/rest) or [GraphQL API](/dev-docs/api/graphql) endpoints as an authenticated user.

API tokens can be helpful to give access to people or applications without managing a user account or changing anything in the Users & Permissions plugin.

When performing a request to Strapi's REST API, the API token should be added to the request's `Authorization` header with the following syntax: `bearer your-api-token`.

:::note
Read-only API tokens can only access the `find` and `findOne` functions.
:::
