docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md, before:

---
title: Draft & Publish
description: Learn how you can use the Draft & Publish feature of Strapi 5 to manage drafts for content.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
 - Content Manager
 - Content type Builder
 - Draft & Publish
 - publishing a draft
 - unpublishing content
---

# Draft & Publish

The Draft & Publish feature allows to manage drafts for your content.

:::prerequisites Identity Card of the Feature
<Icon name="credit-card"/> **Plan:** Free feature. <br/>
<Icon name="user"/> **Role & permission:** None. <br/>
<Icon name="toggle-left"/> **Activation:** Available but disabled by default. <br/>
<Icon name="laptop"/> **Environment:** Available in both Development & Production environment.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing draft version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Configuration

**Path to configure the feature:** ![CTB icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Layout.svg) Content Type Builder

For your content types to be managed with Draft & Publish in the Content Manager, the feature must be enabled through the Content-type Builder. Draft & Publish can be configured for each content type.

To enable Draft & Publish:

1. Either edit an already created content type of your choice, or create a new content type (see Content Type Builder documentation for more information).
2. Go to the **Advanced settings** tab.
3. Tick the Draft & Publish option.
4. Click the **Finish** button.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Content-type Builder's advanced settings"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-type-builder/advanced-settings.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-type-builder/advanced-settings_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Usage

With Draft & Publish enabled, the Content Manager's edit view indicates the current status of your content type's entry at the top of the interface. Your content can have 3 statuses:

- <span style={{color:"#5cb176"}}>Published</span>: The content was previously published. There are no pending draft changes saved.
- <span style={{color:"#ac73e6"}}>Modified</span>: The content was previously published. You made some changes to the draft version and saved these changes, but the changes have not been published yet.
- <span style={{color:"#7b79ff"}}>Draft</span>: The content has never been published yet.

### Working with drafts

**Path to use the feature:** ![Content icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Feather.svg) Content Manager, edit view of your content type

While editing a document, you can see 2 tabs:

- The _Draft_ tab is where you can edit your content.
- The _Published_ tab is a read-only tab where edition of all fields is disabled. The _Published_ tab only exists to show what is the content of fields in the published version.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing draft version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

By default, each newly created content is a draft. Drafts can be modified and saved at will, using the **Save** button in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface, until they are ready to be published.

Once you made changes to a draft, you have 3 possible options, all available in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface:
- **Publish** your document (see [publishing a draft](#publishing-a-draft)),
- **Save** your draft for later retrieval,
- or discard changes, by clicking on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) and choosing ![Discard changes icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle.svg) **Discard changes**.

### Publishing a draft

**Path to use the feature:** ![Content icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Feather.svg) Content Manager, edit view of your content type

To publish a draft, click on the **Publish** button in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface.

After a draft is published:

- The content of the _Draft_ and _Published_ tabs should be exactly the same (but the _Published_ tab remains read-only).
- The status, below the document's title, will switch to "Published".

:::caution
Before publishing a draft, make sure it doesn't have relations with other non-published content, otherwise some of the content may not be available through the API.
:::

When a document has both a draft and a published version available, the published version can be found in the _Published_ tab. If the document has only a draft version, you can not click on the _Published_ tab.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing published version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_published_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_published_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

:::tip
To schedule publication, i.e., convert a draft to a published entry at a given date and time, you can [include it in a release](/user-docs/content-manager/adding-content-to-releases) and [schedule the publication](/user-docs/releases/creating-a-release) of the release.
:::

### Unpublishing content

**Path to use the feature:** ![Content icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Feather.svg) Content Manager, edit view of your content type

To unpublish a previously published content: from the _Draft_ tab, click on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface and choose the **Unpublish** button.

If the draft version of the document contains content different from the published version, you can decide what to do with both content when unpublishing:

1. From the _Draft_ tab, click on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface and choose the **Unpublish** button.
2. In the Confirmation dialog that opens, you can choose to:
    - **Unpublish and keep last draft**, so that all the content you currently have in the _Draft_ tab is preserved, but the all the content from the _Published_ tab is definitely gone
    - **Unpublish and replace last draft** to discard any existing content in the _Draft_ tab and replace it with the content of all fields from the _Published_ tab
3. Click **Confirm**. The desired changes will be applied to both the _Draft_ and _Published_ tabs and the new status of the entry will also be reflected below the entry title.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Unpublish a document"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/content-manager_unpublish.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/content-manager_unpublish_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

### Bulk actions

**Path to use the feature:** ![Content icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Feather.svg) Content Manager, list view of your content type

Selecting multiple entries from the Content Manager's list view will display additional buttons to publish or unpublish several entries simultaneously. This is what is called "bulk publishing/unpublishing".

:::caution
If the [Internationalization plugin](/user-docs/plugins/strapi-plugins#i18n) is installed, the bulk publish/unpublish actions only apply to the currently selected locale.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="Unpublish a document"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/bulk-publish.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/bulk-publish_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

#### Bulk publishing drafts

To publish several entries at the same time:

1. From the list view of the Content Manager, select your entries to publish by ticking the box on the left side of the entries' record.
2. Click on the **Publish** button located above the header of the table.
3. In the _Publish entries_ dialog, check the list of selected entries and their status:
   - ![Success icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CheckCircle.svg) Ready to publish: the entry can be published
   - ![Fail icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle2.svg) "[field name] is required", "[field name] is too short" or "[field name] is too long": the entry cannot be published because of the issue stated in the red warning message.
4. (optional) If some of your entries have a ![Edit icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle2.svg) status, click the ![Edit icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Pencil.svg) edit buttons to fix the issues until all entries have the ![Success icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CheckCircle.svg) Ready to publish status. Note that you will have to click on the **Refresh** button to update the _Publish entries_ dialog as you fix the various entries issues.
5. Click the **Publish** button.
6. In the confirmation dialog box, confirm your choice by clicking again on the **Publish** button.

#### Bulk unpublishing content

To unpublish several entries at the same time:

1. From the list view of the Content Manager, select your entries to unpublish by ticking the box on the left side of the entries' record.
2. Click on the **Unpublish** button located above the header of the table.
3. In the confirmation dialog box, confirm your choice by clicking again on the **Unpublish** button.

### Usage with APIs

Draft or published content can be requested, created, updated, and deleted using the `status` parameter through the various front-end APIs accessible from [Strapi's Content API](/dev-docs/api/content-api):

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="REST API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with the REST API." link="/dev-docs/api/rest/status"/>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="GraphQL API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with GraphQL API." link="/dev-docs/api/graphql#status"/>
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

On the back-end server of Strapi, the Document Service API can also be used to interact with localized content:

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="Document Service API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with the Document Service API." link="/dev-docs/api/document-service/status"/>
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

Commit message:

New CMS documentation - More improvements & fixes (#2369)
* Proofread, improve, fix links & tags in all features pages

* Fix casing in filename to avoid broken link

* Fix broken anchors

* Update icon

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/api-tokens.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/internationalization.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/media-library.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/media-library.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/preview.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/rbac.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/rbac.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/users-permissions.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/rbac.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/rbac.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/rbac.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/users-permissions.md

* Update docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/users-permissions.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Pierre Wizla <pwizla+github@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Pierre Wizla <pwizla@users.noreply.github.com>

docusaurus/docs/user-docs/features/draft-and-publish.md, after:

---
title: Draft & Publish
description: Learn how you can use the Draft & Publish feature of Strapi 5 to manage drafts for content.
displayed_sidebar: cmsSidebar
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
 - content manager
 - content type builder
 - draft & publish
 - publishing a draft
 - unpublishing content
 - features
---

# Draft & Publish

The Draft & Publish feature allows to manage drafts for your content.

:::prerequisites Identity Card of the Feature
<Icon name="credit-card"/> **Plan:** Free feature. <br/>
<Icon name="user"/> **Role & permission:** None. <br/>
<Icon name="toggle-left"/> **Activation:** Available but disabled by default. <br/>
<Icon name="laptop"/> **Environment:** Available in both Development & Production environment.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing draft version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Configuration

**Path to configure the feature:** ![CTB icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Layout.svg) Content Type Builder

For your content types to be managed with Draft & Publish in the Content Manager, the feature must be enabled through the Content-type Builder. Draft & Publish can be configured for each content type.

1. Either edit an already created content type of your choice, or create a new content type (see [Content Type Builder](/user-docs/features/content-type-builder) documentation for more information).
2. Go to the **Advanced settings** tab.
3. Tick the Draft & Publish option.
4. Click the **Finish** button.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Content-type Builder's advanced settings"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-type-builder/advanced-settings.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-type-builder/advanced-settings_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

## Usage

With Draft & Publish enabled, the [Content Manager's edit view](/user-docs/features/content-manager#overview) indicates the current status of your content type's entry at the top of the interface. Your content can have 3 statuses:

- <span style={{color:"#5cb176"}}>Published</span>: The content was previously published. There are no pending draft changes saved.
- <span style={{color:"#ac73e6"}}>Modified</span>: The content was previously published. You made some changes to the draft version and saved these changes, but the changes have not been published yet.
- <span style={{color:"#7b79ff"}}>Draft</span>: The content has never been published yet.

### Working with drafts

**Path:** <Icon name="feather" /> Content Manager, edit view of your content type

While editing a document, you can see 2 tabs:

- The _Draft_ tab is where you can edit your content.
- The _Published_ tab is a read-only tab where edition of all fields is disabled. The _Published_ tab only exists to show what is the content of fields in the published version.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing draft version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_draft_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

By default, each newly created content is a draft. Drafts can be modified and saved at will, using the **Save** button in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface, until they are ready to be published.

Once you made changes to a draft, you have 3 possible options, all available in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface:
- **Publish** your document (see [Publishing a draft](#publishing-a-draft)),
- **Save** your draft for later retrieval,
- or discard changes, by clicking on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) and choosing ![Discard changes icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle.svg) **Discard changes**.

### Publishing a draft

**Path:** <Icon name="feather" /> Content Manager, edit view of your content type

To publish a draft, click on the **Publish** button in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface.

After a draft is published:

- The content of the _Draft_ and _Published_ tabs should be exactly the same (but the _Published_ tab remains read-only).
- The status, below the document's title, will switch to "Published".

:::caution
Before publishing a draft, make sure it doesn't have relations with other non-published content, otherwise some of the content may not be available through the API.
:::

When a document has both a draft and a published version available, the published version can be found in the _Published_ tab. If the document has only a draft version, you can not click on the _Published_ tab.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Editing published version"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_published_version3.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/editing_published_version3_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

:::tip
To schedule publication (i.e. convert a draft to a published entry at a given date and time) you can include it in a release and schedule the publication of that release. Please refer to the [Releases feature](/user-docs/features/releases) documentation for more information.
:::

### Unpublishing content

**Path:** <Icon name="feather" /> Content Manager, edit view of your content type

To unpublish a previously published content: from the _Draft_ tab, click on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface and choose the **Unpublish** button.

If the draft version of the document contains content different from the published version, you can decide what to do with both content when unpublishing:

1. From the _Draft_ tab, click on ![More icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/More.svg) in the _Entry_ box on the right side of the interface and choose the **Unpublish** button.
2. In the Confirmation dialog that opens, you can choose to:
    - **Unpublish and keep last draft**, so that all the content you currently have in the _Draft_ tab is preserved, but the all the content from the _Published_ tab is definitely gone
    - **Unpublish and replace last draft** to discard any existing content in the _Draft_ tab and replace it with the content of all fields from the _Published_ tab
3. Click **Confirm**. The desired changes will be applied to both the _Draft_ and _Published_ tabs and the new status of the entry will also be reflected below the entry title.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Unpublish a document"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/content-manager_unpublish.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/content-manager_unpublish_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

### Bulk actions

**Path:** <Icon name="feather" /> Content Manager, list view of your content type

Selecting multiple entries from the [Content Manager's list view](/user-docs/features/content-manager#overview) will display additional buttons to publish or unpublish several entries simultaneously. This is what is called "bulk publishing/unpublishing".

:::caution
If the [Internationalization feature](/user-docs/features/internationalization) is installed, the bulk publish/unpublish actions only apply to the currently selected locale.
:::

<ThemedImage
  alt="Unpublish a document"
  sources={{
    light: '/img/assets/content-manager/bulk-publish.png',
    dark: '/img/assets/content-manager/bulk-publish_DARK.png',
  }}
/>

#### Bulk publishing drafts

To publish several entries at the same time:

1. From the list view of the Content Manager, select your entries to publish by ticking the box on the left side of the entries' record.
2. Click on the **Publish** button located above the header of the table.
3. In the _Publish entries_ dialog, check the list of selected entries and their status:
   - ![Success icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CheckCircle.svg) Ready to publish: the entry can be published
   - ![Fail icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle2.svg) "[field name] is required", "[field name] is too short" or "[field name] is too long": the entry cannot be published because of the issue stated in the red warning message.
4. (optional) If some of your entries have a ![Edit icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CrossCircle2.svg) status, click the ![Edit icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/Pencil.svg) edit buttons to fix the issues until all entries have the ![Success icon](/img/assets/icons/v5/CheckCircle.svg) Ready to publish status. Note that you will have to click on the **Refresh** button to update the _Publish entries_ dialog as you fix the various entries issues.
5. Click the **Publish** button.
6. In the confirmation dialog box, confirm your choice by clicking again on the **Publish** button.

#### Bulk unpublishing content

To unpublish several entries at the same time:

1. From the list view of the Content Manager, select your entries to unpublish by ticking the box on the left side of the entries' record.
2. Click on the **Unpublish** button located above the header of the table.
3. In the confirmation dialog box, confirm your choice by clicking again on the **Unpublish** button.

### Usage with APIs

Draft or published content can be requested, created, updated, and deleted using the `status` parameter through the various front-end APIs accessible from [Strapi's Content API](/dev-docs/api/content-api):

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="REST API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with the REST API." link="/dev-docs/api/rest/status"/>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="GraphQL API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with GraphQL API." link="/dev-docs/api/graphql#status"/>
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>

On the back-end server of Strapi, the Document Service API can also be used to interact with localized content:

<CustomDocCardsWrapper>
<CustomDocCard icon="cube" title="Document Service API" description="Learn how to use the status parameter with the Document Service API." link="/dev-docs/api/document-service/status"/>
</CustomDocCardsWrapper>
