docusaurus/docs/cloud/account/account-billing.md, before:

---
title: Account billing details
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
description: Manage billing details for Strapi Cloud account.
canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/cloud/account/account-billing.html
tags:
- billing details
- cancel subscription
- edit subscription
- manage subscription
- Strapi Cloud
- Strapi Cloud project
---

import InvoiceStatus from '/docs/snippets/invoices-statuses.md'

# Account billing & invoices 

Through the *Profile* page, accessible by clicking on your profile picture on the top right hand corner of the interface then clicking on **Profile**, you can access the [![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing*](#account-billing) and [![Invoices icon](/img/assets/icons/Invoice.svg) *Invoices*](#account-invoices) tabs.

## Account billing

The ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab displays and enables you to modify the billing details and payment method set for the account.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Billing tab of Profile page"
  sources={{
      light: '/img/assets/cloud/account-billing2.png',
      dark: '/img/assets/cloud/account-billing2_DARK.png',
    }}
/>

The *Payment method* section of the ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab allows you to manage the credit cards that can be used for the Strapi Cloud projects. The *Billing details* section requires to be filled in, at least for the mandatory fields, as this information will be the default billing details for all Strapi Cloud projects related to your account.

### Adding a new credit card

1. In the *Payment method* section of the ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab, click on the **Add card** button.
2. Fill in the following fields:

| Field name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Card Number | Write the number of the credit card to add as payment method. |
| Expires | Write the expiration date of the credit card. |
| CVC | Write the 3-numbers code displayed at the back of the credit card. |

3. Click on the **Save** button.

:::tip
The first credit card to be added as payment method for the account will by default be the primary one. It is however possible to define another credit card as primary by clicking on the ![Menu icon](/img/assets/icons/more.svg) icon, then **Switch as primary**.
:::

### Deleting a credit card

To remove a credit card from the list of payment methods for the account:

1. Click on the ![Menu icon](/img/assets/icons/more.svg) icon of the credit card you wish to delete.
2. Click **Remove card**. The card is immediately deleted.

:::note
You cannot delete the primary card as at least one credit card must be available as payment method, and the primary card is by default that one. If the credit card you wish to delete is currently the primary card, you must first define another credit card as primary, then delete it.
:::

## Account invoices

The ![Invoices icon](/img/assets/icons/Invoice.svg) *Invoices* tab displays the complete list of invoices for all your Strapi Cloud projects.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Invoices tab of Profile page"
  sources={{
      light: '/img/assets/cloud/account-invoices.png',
      dark: '/img/assets/cloud/account-invoices_DARK.png',
    }}
/>

<InvoiceStatus components={props.components} />

:::strapi Invoices are also available per project.
In the *Settings > Invoices* tab of any project, you will find the invoices for that project only. Feel free to check the [dedicated documentation](/cloud/projects/settings#invoices).
:::

Commit message:

chore: multiple cards and their role
chore: adding screenshots

docusaurus/docs/cloud/account/account-billing.md, after:

---
title: Account billing details
displayed_sidebar: cloudSidebar
description: Manage billing details for Strapi Cloud account.
canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/cloud/account/account-billing.html
tags:
- billing details
- cancel subscription
- edit subscription
- manage subscription
- Strapi Cloud
- Strapi Cloud project
---

import InvoiceStatus from '/docs/snippets/invoices-statuses.md'

# Account billing & invoices 

Through the *Profile* page, accessible by clicking on your profile picture on the top right hand corner of the interface then clicking on **Profile**, you can access the [![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing*](#account-billing) and [![Invoices icon](/img/assets/icons/Invoice.svg) *Invoices*](#account-invoices) tabs.

## Account billing

The ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab displays and enables you to modify the billing details and payment method set for the account.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Billing tab of Profile page"
  sources={{
      light: '/img/assets/cloud/account-billing2.png',
      dark: '/img/assets/cloud/account-billing2_DARK.png',
    }}
/>

The *Payment method* section of the ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab allows you to manage the credit cards that can be used for the Strapi Cloud projects. The *Billing details* section requires to be filled in, at least for the mandatory fields, as this information will be the default billing details for all Strapi Cloud projects related to your account.

### Adding a new credit card

1. In the *Payment method* section of the ![Billing icon](/img/assets/icons/CreditCard.svg) *Billing* tab, click on the **Add card** button.
2. Fill in the following fields:

| Field name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Card Number | Write the number of the credit card to add as payment method. |
| Expires | Write the expiration date of the credit card. |
| CVC | Write the 3-numbers code displayed at the back of the credit card. |

3. Click on the **Save** button.

:::tip
- The first credit card to be added as payment method will be by default the primary card. You can change the role by clicking on the ![Menu icon](/img/assets/icons/more.svg) icon, then **Set as primary** on another card.
- Be aware that you also have the possibility to use a dedicated card at projects-level. It will allow you to use different cards for different projects (see [Project Settings > Billing & Usage](/cloud/projects/settings#billing--usage)).
:::

### Deleting a credit card

To remove a credit card from the list of payment methods for the account:

1. Click on the ![Menu icon](/img/assets/icons/more.svg) icon of the credit card you wish to delete.
2. Click **Remove card**. The card is immediately deleted.

:::note
You cannot delete the primary card as at least one credit card must be available as payment method, and the primary card is by default that one. If the credit card you wish to delete is currently the primary card, you must first define another credit card as primary, then delete it.
:::

## Account invoices

The ![Invoices icon](/img/assets/icons/Invoice.svg) *Invoices* tab displays the complete list of invoices for all your Strapi Cloud projects.

<ThemedImage
  alt="Invoices tab of Profile page"
  sources={{
      light: '/img/assets/cloud/account-invoices.png',
      dark: '/img/assets/cloud/account-invoices_DARK.png',
    }}
/>

<InvoiceStatus components={props.components} />

:::strapi Invoices are also available per project.
In the *Settings > Invoices* tab of any project, you will find the invoices for that project only. Feel free to check the [dedicated documentation](/cloud/projects/settings#invoices).
:::
