docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/community.md, before:

---
tags:
- contribution
- community
- support
- feature request
- bug report
- pull request
---



# Community & Support 

Strapi is an open-source project (see [LICENSE](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more information). The core project, as well as the documentation and any related tool can be found in the [Strapi](https://github.com/strapi) GitHub organization.

## Open-source & Contribution

As it goes hand in hand with the open-source ecosystem, Strapi is open to contributions. The Strapi team appreciates every contribution, be it a feature request, bug report, or pull request. The following GitHub repositories are open-source and contributions-friendly:

- [`strapi/strapi`](https://github.com/strapi/strapi): main repository of Strapi, which contains the core of the project. You can find the admin panel, core plugins, plugin providers, and the whole code that runs your Strapi application. Please read the [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file to have more information about contributions to the main repository.
- [`strapi/documentation`](https://github.com/strapi/documentation): contains the whole documentation of Strapi. Please read the [contribution guide](https://github.com/strapi/documentation/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to have more information about contributions to the Strapi documentation.
- [`strapi/design-system`](https://github.com/strapi/design-system): is the design system that is used in the admin panel. It brings consistency between the different admin plugins.
- [`strapi-community/awesome-strapi`](https://github.com/strapi/awesome-strapi): contains everything the community built and all managed plugins. It is used as a central place to find and submit new packages such as plugins, middlewares, hooks, and general enhancements to the core of Strapi.

## Strapi Community

Strapi is a community-oriented project with an emphasis on transparency. The Strapi team has at heart to share their vision and build the future of Strapi with the Strapi community. This is why the [roadmap](https://feedback.strapi.io) is open: as all insights are very important and will help steer the project in the right direction, any community member is most welcome to share ideas and opinions there.

Community members also take great part in providing the whole community a plethora of resources about Strapi. You can find [tutorials](https://strapi.io/tutorials/) on the Strapi website, where you can also create your own. Also, as an open-source project, the documentation of Strapi is open to contributions (see [Open-source & Contribution](#open-source--contribution)).

:::strapi Want to join the community?
You can join [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi), the [Forum](https://forum.strapi.io/), and the [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io) to share your ideas and opinions with other community members and members of the Strapi team. If you're looking for news and updates about Strapi, [Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs) and the [blog](https://strapi.io/blog) are pretty good places to start!
:::

## Support

Strapi is offered as free and open-source for users who wish to self-host the software. When having an issue or a question, the [forum](https://forum.strapi.io) is great first place to reach out for help. Both the Strapi community and core developers often check this platform and answer posts.

For enterprise support, please see our [Enterprise Support platform](https://support.strapi.io/support/home). Please note that you will need to have an active <EnterpriseBadge /> license to place tickets.

Commit message:

Update new design branch with all recent content (#2315)
* Update with recent content

* Fix some broken anchors

* Remove all remaining "not v5" snippets

* Fix more broken anchors

* Fix the latest remaining broken anchor

* Add Growth badges and adjust wordings

* Fix a regression broken link

* Fix one more broken anchor 😅

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/community.md, after:

---
tags:
- contribution
- community
- support
- feature request
- bug report
- pull request
---



# Community & Support 

Strapi is an open-source project (see [LICENSE](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more information). The core project, as well as the documentation and any related tool can be found in the [Strapi](https://github.com/strapi) GitHub organization.

## Open-source & Contribution

As it goes hand in hand with the open-source ecosystem, Strapi is open to contributions. The Strapi team appreciates every contribution, be it a feature request, bug report, or pull request. The following GitHub repositories are open-source and contributions-friendly:

- [`strapi/strapi`](https://github.com/strapi/strapi): main repository of Strapi, which contains the core of the project. You can find the admin panel, core plugins, plugin providers, and the whole code that runs your Strapi application. Please read the [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/strapi/strapi/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file to have more information about contributions to the main repository.
- [`strapi/documentation`](https://github.com/strapi/documentation): contains the whole documentation of Strapi. Please read the [contribution guide](https://github.com/strapi/documentation/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to have more information about contributions to the Strapi documentation.
- [`strapi/design-system`](https://github.com/strapi/design-system): is the design system that is used in the admin panel. It brings consistency between the different admin plugins.
- [`strapi-community/awesome-strapi`](https://github.com/strapi/awesome-strapi): contains everything the community built and all managed plugins. It is used as a central place to find and submit new packages such as plugins, middlewares, hooks, and general enhancements to the core of Strapi.

## Strapi Community

Strapi is a community-oriented project with an emphasis on transparency. The Strapi team has at heart to share their vision and build the future of Strapi with the Strapi community. This is why the [roadmap](https://feedback.strapi.io) is open: as all insights are very important and will help steer the project in the right direction, any community member is most welcome to share ideas and opinions there.

Community members also take great part in providing the whole community a plethora of resources about Strapi. You can find [tutorials](https://strapi.io/tutorials/) on the Strapi website, where you can also create your own. Also, as an open-source project, the documentation of Strapi is open to contributions (see [Open-source & Contribution](#open-source--contribution)).

:::strapi Want to join the community?
You can join [GitHub](https://github.com/strapi/strapi), the [Forum](https://forum.strapi.io/), and the [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io) to share your ideas and opinions with other community members and members of the Strapi team. If you're looking for news and updates about Strapi, [Twitter](https://twitter.com/strapijs) and the [blog](https://strapi.io/blog) are pretty good places to start!
:::

## Support

Strapi's Community plan is a free and open-source option for users who wish to self-host the software. If you have an issue or a question, the [forum](https://forum.strapi.io) is great first place to reach out for help. Both the Strapi community and core developers often check this platform and answer posts.

For customers on our paid plans, you can reference our [Support platform](https://support.strapi.io/support/home) to determine your support level and check out our Support platform for more information. Please note that you must have an active <GrowthBadge /> or <EnterpriseBadge /> plan to submit a ticket.
