docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/preview.md, before:

---
title: Setting up the Preview feature
description: Learn to set up the Preview feature to link your front end application to Strapi's Content Manager Preview feature.
displayedSidebar: devDocsSidebar
tags:
- content manager
- preview
- configuration
---

# Setting up the Preview feature <NewBadge />

Strapi's Preview feature enables previewing content in a frontend application directly from the Strapi admin panel. 

The present page describes how to set up the Preview feature in Strapi. Once set up, the feature can be used as described in the [User Guide](/user-docs/content-manager/previewing-content).

:::prerequisites
* The following environment variables must be defined in your `.env` file, replacing example values with appropriate values:

  ```bash
  CLIENT_URL=https://your-frontend-app.com
  PREVIEW_SECRET=your-secret-key
  ```

  The `PREVIEW_SECRET` key is optional but required with Next.js draft mode.

* A front-end application for your Strapi project should be already created and set up.
:::

## Configuration components

The Preview feature configuration is stored in the `preview` object of [the `config/admin` file](/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel) and consists of 3 key components:

### Activation flag

Enables or disables the preview feature:
```javascript title="config/admin.ts|js" {3}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
    // …
}
// …
```

### Allowed origins

Controls which domains are allowed to be loaded in an iframe in your admin panel to preview content:

```javascript title="config/admin.ts|js" {5}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    allowedOrigins: [env("CLIENT_URL")],  // Usually your frontend application URL
    // …
  }
}
// …
```

### Preview handler

Manages the preview logic and URL generation, as in the following basic example where `uid` is the content-type identifier (e.g., `api::article.article` or `plugin::my-api.my-content-type`):

```jsx title="config/admin.ts|js" {6-11}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    // …
    async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
      const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
      const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });

      return `${env('PREVIEW_URL')}${pathname}`
    },
  }
}
// …
```

An example of [URL generation logic](#2-add-url-generation-logic) in given in the following basic implementation guide.

#### Previewing draft entries

The strategy for the front end application to query draft or published content is framework-specific. At least 3 strategies exist:

- using a query parameter, having something like `/your-path?preview=true` (this is, for instance, how [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-preview-modehow) works)
- redirecting to a dedicated preview route like `/preview?path=your-path`(this is, for instance, how [Next's draft mode](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/draft-mode) works)
- or using a different domain for previews like `preview.mysite.com/your-path`.

When [Draft & Publish](/user-docs/content-manager/saving-and-publishing-content.md) is enabled for your content-type, you can also directly leverage Strapi's `status` parameter to handle the logic within the Preview handler, using the following generic approach:

```javascript
async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
   const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
   const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });
   if (status === 'published')  { 
      // return the published version
   }
   // return the draft version
},
```

A more detailed example using the draft mode of Next.js is given in the [basic implementation guide](#3-add-handler-logic).

## Basic implementation guide

Follow these steps to add Preview capabilities to your content types in Strapi and your front-end.

This guide uses a basic Next.js example, but the process applies to all frameworks with some variations. Strapi-related steps (prefixed with [Strapi]) remain mostly the same. Please refer to your front-end framework's documentation for specific implementation details.

Create a new file `/config/admin.ts` (or update it if it exists) with the following basic structure:

```javascript title="config/admin.ts"
export default ({ env }) => ({
  // Other admin-related configurations go here
  // (see docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel)
  preview: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      allowedOrigins: env('CLIENT_URL'),
      async handler (uid, { documentId, locale, status }) => {
        // Handler implementation coming in step 3
      },
    },
  },
});
```

### 2. Add URL generation logic

Add the URL generation logic with a `getPreviewPathname` function. The following example is taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application:

```typescript title="config/admin.ts"
// Function to generate preview pathname based on content type and document
const getPreviewPathname = (uid, { locale, document }): string => {
  const { slug } = document;
  
  // Handle different content types with their specific URL patterns
  switch (uid) {
    // Handle pages with predefined routes
    case "api::page.page":
      switch (slug) {
        case "homepage":
          return `/${locale}`; // Localized homepage
        case "pricing":
          return "/pricing"; // Pricing page
        case "contact":
          return "/contact"; // Contact page
        case "faq":
          return "/faq"; // FAQ page
      }
    // Handle product pages
    case "api::product.product": {
      if (!slug) {
        return "/products"; // Products listing page
      }
      return `/products/${slug}`; // Individual product page
    }
    // Handle blog articles
    case "api::article.article": {
      if (!slug) {
        return "/blog"; // Blog listing page
      }
      return `/blog/${slug}`; // Individual article page
    }
    default: {
      return null;
    }
  }
};

// … main export (see step 3)
```

:::note
Some content types don't need to have a preview if it doesn't make sense, hence the default case returning `null`. A Global single type with some site metadata, for example, will not have a matching front-end page. In these cases, the handler function should return `null`, and the preview UI will not be shown in the admin panel. This is how you enable or disable preview per content type.
:::

### 3. Add handler logic

Create the complete configuration, expanding the basic configuration created in step 1. with the URL generation logic created in step 2., adding an appropriate handler logic:

```typescript title="config/admin.ts" {8-9,18-35}
const getPreviewPathname = (uid, { locale, document }): string => {
  // … as defined in step 2
};

// Main configuration export
export default ({ env }) => {
  // Get environment variables
  const clientUrl = env("CLIENT_URL"); // Frontend application URL
  const previewSecret = env("PREVIEW_SECRET"); // Secret key for preview authentication

  return {
    // Other admin-related configurations go here
    // (see docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel)
    preview: {
      enabled: true, // Enable preview functionality
      config: {
        allowedOrigins: clientUrl, // Restrict preview access to specific domain
        async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
          // Fetch the complete document from Strapi
          const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
          
          // Generate the preview pathname based on content type and document
          const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });

          // Disable preview if the pathname is not found
          if (!pathname) {
            return null;
          }

          // Use Next.js draft mode passing it a secret key and the content-type status
          const urlSearchParams = new URLSearchParams({
            url: pathname,
            secret: previewSecret,
            status,
          });
          return `${clientUrl}/api/preview?${urlSearchParams}`;
        },
      },
    },
  };
};
```

### 4. Set up the front-end preview route

Setting up the front-end preview route is highly dependent on the framework used for your front-end application.

For instance, [Next.js draft mode](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/draft-mode) and
[Nuxt preview mode](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-preview-mode) provide additional documentation on how to implement the front-end part in their respective documentations.

If using Next.js, a basic implementation could be like in the following example taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application:

```typescript title="/next/api/preview/route.ts"
import { draftMode } from "next/headers";
import { redirect } from "next/navigation";

export async function GET(request: Request) {
  // Parse query string parameters
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url);
  const secret = searchParams.get("secret");
  const url = searchParams.get("url");
  const status = searchParams.get("status");

  // Check the secret and next parameters
  // This secret should only be known to this route handler and the CMS
  if (secret !== process.env.PREVIEW_SECRET) {
    return new Response("Invalid token", { status: 401 });
  }

  // Enable Draft Mode by setting the cookie
  if (status === "published") {
    draftMode().disable();
  } else {
    draftMode().enable();
  }

  // Redirect to the path from the fetched post
  // We don't redirect to searchParams.slug as that might lead to open redirect vulnerabilities
  redirect(url || "/");
}
```

### 5. Allow the front-end to be embedded

On the Strapi side, [the `allowedOrigins` configuration parameter](#allowed-origins) allows the admin panel to load the front-end window in an iframe. But allowing the embedding works both ways, so on the front-end side, you also need to allow the window to be embedded in Strapi's admin panel.

This requires the front-end application to have its own header directive, the CSP `frame-ancestors` directive. Setting this directive up depends on how your website is built. For instance, setting this up in Next.js requires a middleware configuration (see [Next.js docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/content-security-policy)).

### Next steps

Once the preview system is set up, you need to adapt your data fetching logic to handle draft content appropriately. This involves:

1. Create or adapt your data fetching utility to check if draft mode is enabled
2. Update your API calls to include the draft status parameter when appropriate

The following, taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application, is an example of how to implement draft-aware data fetching in your Next.js front-end application:

```typescript {8-18}
import { draftMode } from "next/headers";
import qs from "qs";

export default async function fetchContentType(
  contentType: string,
  params: Record = {}
): Promise {
  // Check if Next.js draft mode is enabled
  const { isEnabled: isDraftMode } = draftMode();
  
  try {
    const queryParams = { ...params };
    // Add status=draft parameter when draft mode is enabled
    if (isDraftMode) {
      queryParams.status = "draft";
    }
    
    const url = `${baseURL}/${contentType}?${qs.stringify(queryParams)}`;
    const response = await fetch(url);
    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(
        `Failed to fetch data from Strapi (url=${url}, status=${response.status})`
      );
    }
    return await response.json();
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching content:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

This utility method can then be used in your page components to fetch either draft or published content based on the preview state:

```typescript
// In your page component:
const pageData = await fetchContentType('api::page.page', {
  // Your other query parameters
});
```

Commit message:

Update titles to mention Strapi or front-end

docusaurus/docs/dev-docs/preview.md, after:

---
title: Setting up the Preview feature
description: Learn to set up the Preview feature to link your front end application to Strapi's Content Manager Preview feature.
displayedSidebar: devDocsSidebar
tags:
- content manager
- preview
- configuration
---

# Setting up the Preview feature <NewBadge />

Strapi's Preview feature enables previewing content in a frontend application directly from the Strapi admin panel. 

The present page describes how to set up the Preview feature in Strapi. Once set up, the feature can be used as described in the [User Guide](/user-docs/content-manager/previewing-content).

:::prerequisites
* The following environment variables must be defined in your `.env` file, replacing example values with appropriate values:

  ```bash
  CLIENT_URL=https://your-frontend-app.com
  PREVIEW_SECRET=your-secret-key
  ```

  The `PREVIEW_SECRET` key is optional but required with Next.js draft mode.

* A front-end application for your Strapi project should be already created and set up.
:::

## Configuration components

The Preview feature configuration is stored in the `preview` object of [the `config/admin` file](/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel) and consists of 3 key components:

### Activation flag

Enables or disables the preview feature:
```javascript title="config/admin.ts|js" {3}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
    // …
}
// …
```

### Allowed origins

Controls which domains are allowed to be loaded in an iframe in your admin panel to preview content:

```javascript title="config/admin.ts|js" {5}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    allowedOrigins: [env("CLIENT_URL")],  // Usually your frontend application URL
    // …
  }
}
// …
```

### Preview handler

Manages the preview logic and URL generation, as in the following basic example where `uid` is the content-type identifier (e.g., `api::article.article` or `plugin::my-api.my-content-type`):

```jsx title="config/admin.ts|js" {6-11}
// …
preview: {
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    // …
    async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
      const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
      const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });

      return `${env('PREVIEW_URL')}${pathname}`
    },
  }
}
// …
```

An example of [URL generation logic](#2-add-url-generation-logic) in given in the following basic implementation guide.

#### Previewing draft entries

The strategy for the front end application to query draft or published content is framework-specific. At least 3 strategies exist:

- using a query parameter, having something like `/your-path?preview=true` (this is, for instance, how [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-preview-modehow) works)
- redirecting to a dedicated preview route like `/preview?path=your-path`(this is, for instance, how [Next's draft mode](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/draft-mode) works)
- or using a different domain for previews like `preview.mysite.com/your-path`.

When [Draft & Publish](/user-docs/content-manager/saving-and-publishing-content.md) is enabled for your content-type, you can also directly leverage Strapi's `status` parameter to handle the logic within the Preview handler, using the following generic approach:

```javascript
async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
   const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
   const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });
   if (status === 'published')  { 
      // return the published version
   }
   // return the draft version
},
```

A more detailed example using the draft mode of Next.js is given in the [basic implementation guide](#3-add-handler-logic).

## Basic implementation guide

Follow these steps to add Preview capabilities to your content types in Strapi and your front-end.

This guide uses a basic Next.js example, but the process applies to all frameworks with some variations. Strapi-related steps (prefixed with [Strapi]) remain mostly the same. Please refer to your front-end framework's documentation for specific implementation details.

### 1. [Strapi] Create the Preview configuration

Create a new file `/config/admin.ts` (or update it if it exists) with the following basic structure:

```javascript title="config/admin.ts"
export default ({ env }) => ({
  // Other admin-related configurations go here
  // (see docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel)
  preview: {
    enabled: true,
    config: {
      allowedOrigins: env('CLIENT_URL'),
      async handler (uid, { documentId, locale, status }) => {
        // Handler implementation coming in step 3
      },
    },
  },
});
```

### 2. [Strapi] Add URL generation logic

Add the URL generation logic with a `getPreviewPathname` function. The following example is taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application:

```typescript title="config/admin.ts"
// Function to generate preview pathname based on content type and document
const getPreviewPathname = (uid, { locale, document }): string => {
  const { slug } = document;
  
  // Handle different content types with their specific URL patterns
  switch (uid) {
    // Handle pages with predefined routes
    case "api::page.page":
      switch (slug) {
        case "homepage":
          return `/${locale}`; // Localized homepage
        case "pricing":
          return "/pricing"; // Pricing page
        case "contact":
          return "/contact"; // Contact page
        case "faq":
          return "/faq"; // FAQ page
      }
    // Handle product pages
    case "api::product.product": {
      if (!slug) {
        return "/products"; // Products listing page
      }
      return `/products/${slug}`; // Individual product page
    }
    // Handle blog articles
    case "api::article.article": {
      if (!slug) {
        return "/blog"; // Blog listing page
      }
      return `/blog/${slug}`; // Individual article page
    }
    default: {
      return null;
    }
  }
};

// … main export (see step 3)
```

:::note
Some content types don't need to have a preview if it doesn't make sense, hence the default case returning `null`. A Global single type with some site metadata, for example, will not have a matching front-end page. In these cases, the handler function should return `null`, and the preview UI will not be shown in the admin panel. This is how you enable or disable preview per content type.
:::

### 3. [Strapi] Add handler logic

Create the complete configuration, expanding the basic configuration created in step 1. with the URL generation logic created in step 2., adding an appropriate handler logic:

```typescript title="config/admin.ts" {8-9,18-35}
const getPreviewPathname = (uid, { locale, document }): string => {
  // … as defined in step 2
};

// Main configuration export
export default ({ env }) => {
  // Get environment variables
  const clientUrl = env("CLIENT_URL"); // Frontend application URL
  const previewSecret = env("PREVIEW_SECRET"); // Secret key for preview authentication

  return {
    // Other admin-related configurations go here
    // (see docs.strapi.io/dev-docs/configurations/admin-panel)
    preview: {
      enabled: true, // Enable preview functionality
      config: {
        allowedOrigins: clientUrl, // Restrict preview access to specific domain
        async handler(uid, { documentId, locale, status }) {
          // Fetch the complete document from Strapi
          const document = await strapi.documents(uid).findOne({ documentId });
          
          // Generate the preview pathname based on content type and document
          const pathname = getPreviewPathname(uid, { locale, document });

          // Disable preview if the pathname is not found
          if (!pathname) {
            return null;
          }

          // Use Next.js draft mode passing it a secret key and the content-type status
          const urlSearchParams = new URLSearchParams({
            url: pathname,
            secret: previewSecret,
            status,
          });
          return `${clientUrl}/api/preview?${urlSearchParams}`;
        },
      },
    },
  };
};
```

### 4. [Front end] Set up the front-end preview route

Setting up the front-end preview route is highly dependent on the framework used for your front-end application.

For instance, [Next.js draft mode](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/draft-mode) and
[Nuxt preview mode](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/composables/use-preview-mode) provide additional information on how to implement the front-end part in their respective documentations.

If using Next.js, a basic implementation could be like in the following example taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application:

```typescript title="/next/api/preview/route.ts"
import { draftMode } from "next/headers";
import { redirect } from "next/navigation";

export async function GET(request: Request) {
  // Parse query string parameters
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url);
  const secret = searchParams.get("secret");
  const url = searchParams.get("url");
  const status = searchParams.get("status");

  // Check the secret and next parameters
  // This secret should only be known to this route handler and the CMS
  if (secret !== process.env.PREVIEW_SECRET) {
    return new Response("Invalid token", { status: 401 });
  }

  // Enable Draft Mode by setting the cookie
  if (status === "published") {
    draftMode().disable();
  } else {
    draftMode().enable();
  }

  // Redirect to the path from the fetched post
  // We don't redirect to searchParams.slug as that might lead to open redirect vulnerabilities
  redirect(url || "/");
}
```

### 5. [Front end] Allow the front-end to be embedded

On the Strapi side, [the `allowedOrigins` configuration parameter](#allowed-origins) allows the admin panel to load the front-end window in an iframe. But allowing the embedding works both ways, so on the front-end side, you also need to allow the window to be embedded in Strapi's admin panel.

This requires the front-end application to have its own header directive, the CSP `frame-ancestors` directive. Setting this directive up depends on how your website is built. For instance, setting this up in Next.js requires a middleware configuration (see [Next.js docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/content-security-policy)).

### Next steps

Once the preview system is set up, you need to adapt your data fetching logic to handle draft content appropriately. This involves:

1. Create or adapt your data fetching utility to check if draft mode is enabled
2. Update your API calls to include the draft status parameter when appropriate

The following, taken from the [Launchpad](https://github.com/strapi/LaunchPad/tree/feat/preview) Strapi demo application, is an example of how to implement draft-aware data fetching in your Next.js front-end application:

```typescript {8-18}
import { draftMode } from "next/headers";
import qs from "qs";

export default async function fetchContentType(
  contentType: string,
  params: Record = {}
): Promise {
  // Check if Next.js draft mode is enabled
  const { isEnabled: isDraftMode } = draftMode();
  
  try {
    const queryParams = { ...params };
    // Add status=draft parameter when draft mode is enabled
    if (isDraftMode) {
      queryParams.status = "draft";
    }
    
    const url = `${baseURL}/${contentType}?${qs.stringify(queryParams)}`;
    const response = await fetch(url);
    if (!response.ok) {
      throw new Error(
        `Failed to fetch data from Strapi (url=${url}, status=${response.status})`
      );
    }
    return await response.json();
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error fetching content:", error);
    throw error;
  }
}
```

This utility method can then be used in your page components to fetch either draft or published content based on the preview state:

```typescript
// In your page component:
const pageData = await fetchContentType('api::page.page', {
  // Your other query parameters
});
```
